<h2>FOREWORD</h2>
<p>
In the year 1898 there were 201 fatal street
accidents in the city of New York. Of these,
eighty-eight were caused by horse vehicles and
113 by street-cars. In the latter total are included people who died of old age while waiting
for cars that were not labelled “Car Barn Only.”
The following year brought the automobile to
America’s metropolis and the statistics attribute
one fatality to its arrival, as against 103 deaths
by horse vehicles and 167 by street-cars. It was
not until 1913 that the automobile forged to the
front as a lethal weapon, never again to be
headed. After 1918 the horses and street-cars
virtually gave up trying, and the figures for last
year show that the thing has ceased to be a contest and become a joke—1,075 deaths by autos,
64 by street-cars and 14 by horse vehicles.
</p>
<p>
It is estimated that if the horse vehicles and
street-cars had kept on fighting and maintained
their early leadership over automobiles, by the
year 1970 the entire population of New York
City would have been wiped out and no harm
done.
</p>
<p>
The <i>World Almanac</i>, from which this information was gleaned, gives us only one ray of hope.
In New York’s biggest borough, Brooklyn, there
were a thousand fewer births and thirteen hundred more death in 1928 than in 1927. It may
also comfort some folks to know that only fifty
thousand more New Yorkers speak Yiddish and
Hebrew than English and Celtic. 
</p>
<h2>PROLOGUE</h2>
<p>
The scene is a section of a parlor car speeding toward New York, and not so very far from
it when the curtain rises. We see only two chairs
clearly; the ends of the car dissolve in shadows.
On these less visible chairs are tossed vague overcoats and magazines; the racks above them are
filled with baggage. There is a bag or two overhead;
on the floor are quantities of Sunday newspapers, along with plenty of rotogravure sections,
curling carelessly against the bottoms of the
chairs. It is night, and the shades are down.
</p>
<p>
In the two vital chairs sit a boy and a girl.
The name of the boy, as we presently find out, is
FRED STEVENS. The girl is EDNA BAKER. She sits
with her back to him, and is absorbed in a magazine when the curtain goes up. The boy, who is
not exactly a literary type, is a bit restless. He
wriggles in his seat, sighs, peers discreetly at
the girl, who pays no attention. With a bit too
much of a flourish, as though he thus hoped to attract her attention, he whips out a time table and
studies it. Consults his watch; swings and peers
out of the window, hand cupped over eyes to exclude the light. Then he swings back, relaxes—
and looks toward the girl again. She swings her
chair around for a second; peers down the aisle,
but swings back without having permitted the boy
to catch her eye. He rattles his newspaper a trifle
obviously; indulges in a bit of bad whistling;
hums a little. She swings around again; another
look down the aisle. FRED girds up his courage to
break the ice. The girl, who has the situation
well in hand, gives sudden and demure attention
to an imaginary spot on her dress. She chips at
it with a fingernail.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(diffidently extending his newspaper)<br />
Would you—care to look at the paper?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(ever so properly, in the manner of a young
woman who never has been spoken to on a
train before)<br />
Oh, thank you very much. I don't think so,
thank you. (By turning away from him again
she indicates that she is not encouraging a continuation of the interview.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I thought maybe you might want to read.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
No, thank you. (She gives him a small smile.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(trying desperately to keep things going)<br />
We're due in New York at ten-three.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Yes, I know.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You got on at Hudson, didn't you?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Yes.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I seen you. (A pause after this momentous remark.) I been on ever since Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Really?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
That's where I work. I mean, where I did
work. At the G. E.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
G. E.?<br />
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
General Electric. They call it the G. E. That's
where their plant is, Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(feeling that it's all right to help along)<br />
I've got a girl friend from Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Is that so?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
She's in New York now, or at least she was the
last time I heard of her. Working at Saks'. Grace
Crowell.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I used to know a Mildred Crowell, but her
name wasn't Grace.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(refusing to give in)<br />
This was Grace. I haven't seen her for years,
and I never did know her very well.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Mildred Crowell's brother was quite a billiard
player. Three cushions. Eddie, his name was.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
That's my name, too. (Laughs.) Of course it
isn't my real name. It's just my nickname. My
real name's Edna.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Oh! (He comes back to vital matters.) Eddie
Crowell used to pretty near live on the billiard
table. Then finally his health broke down and he
went out West somewheres. I couldn't tell you
now if he's dead or alive.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It's funny how we lose track of people. Some
of the girls I used to go with, they still live there
yet, but I never look any of them up, except Gertie Hutton. I guess it's terrible of me not to,
because if a person's got good friends, they ought
to keep them.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I certainly got good ones. They showed that
last night, at the banquet. (He has finally managed to bring that up.).
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Were you at a banquet?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I had to be. It was me they give it for. I
mean, I was the guest of honor.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
How exciting!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It was a farewell testimonial on account of me
going to New York. And then this afternoon ten
or eleven of them come down to the station, and
Ernie Butler had a hangover and bought me this
seat in the parlor car; he said it would be a disgrace
for me to ride in the day coach with this
new bag. (He indicates a shining yellow suitcase
at his side.)
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It's a beautiful bag!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
They give it to me at the banquet. It's got my
initials. See? F. M. S. Frederick M. Stevens.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
What's the M for?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Martin.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I like a man to have a middle name. Girls
don't usually have them. I'm just plain Edna.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(pretty daring, for him)<br />
I wouldn't say &quot;plain.&quot;
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You know how to make pretty speeches.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I bet you're used to them.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
There's another one. I'm not so used to them
that I don't like to hear them, especially from people
whom I think they're sincere.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I don't say things unless I mean them.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'm glad of that.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Talking about speeches, you ought to heard
the speech Carl Williams, made when he give me
this bag. At the banquet, I mean. I guess I
blushed, the things he said about me. A lot more
than I deserve.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I bet they were sorry to see you go. You look
like the kind of a man men would like. And girls,
too.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I don't go around much with girls.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I don't go much with men, either.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Neither do I. (A pause; that subject's cleaned
up.) It's comfortable in here, ain't it? Like being
home. I never been in a parlor car before.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
My brother always insists on me riding in it.
He says the day coach is generally dirty, for one
thing—and another thing, the men that ride in
the day coach are the kind that try and make up
to pretty girls. That sounds like I was throwing
a bouquet at myself, but I'm just repeating what
Dick said. That's my brother's name, Dick. I
guess a brother always thinks their sister is good-looking.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I believe in a man sticking up for their sister,
or any woman. I got no use for a man that don't
respect woman's hood. Where would a man be if
it wasn't for their mothers and sisters and wives?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Some men haven't got wives.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I haven't got one myself—yet. I ain't been
lucky enough to meet a woman who would be a
good pal as well as a sweetheart. I want my wife
to be like mother used to be.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I love to have a man love their mother.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I wished mine was still here. Like Carl Williams
said in his speech last night—if she was
still here, maybe she would be a little proud of me.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'll bet she would.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
He made quite a speech, all right. He said the
boys expected me to make Irving Berlin jealous.
I said I didn't want to make nobody jealous, but
I wanted to make my friends proud. I said my
only regret in going to New York was on account
of leaving so many good friends behind, and as
soon as my songs begun to sell up in the hundred
thousands, and my dreams came true, I would invite
them all down to visit me on Broadway and
show them the sights.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(a bit too eagerly)<br />
Is that what you are? A song-writer?
</p>
<p>
FRED (nods)
Not the music part; just the words. Lyrics,
they're called.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It must be wonderful to have a gift like that.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
That's what Benny Davis called it—a gift. I
guess you've heard of him—he's turned out a hundred
smash hits.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I guess I must have.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
He wrote, &quot;Oh, How I Miss You To-night!&quot;
It was a song about how he missed his mother—
he called her his &quot;Old Pal.&quot;
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
That's sweet!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, he happened to be playing in Schenectady
in vaudeville, and I happened to meet him and I
happened to show him some of my lyrics. And he
said a man like I with the song-writing gift was
a sucker not to go to New York, because that's
where they have the Mecca for a man if you got
the song-writing gift. So he give me a letter to
the Friars' Club, asking them to give me a two
weeks' card, they call it. The Friars' Club is
where they have the Mecca for song-writers. And
he give me a letter of introduction to Paul Sears,
the composer. He wrote &quot;Paprika.&quot; You remember
&quot;Paprika&quot;? (He sings a strain of it.) &quot;Paprika,
Paprika, the spice of my life—&quot;
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(with quick concurrence)<br />
I think so.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
When you write a song like &quot;Paprika&quot; you
don't ever have to worry again. He's one of the
most successful composers there is, Paul Sears.
I bet you I and he will turn out some hits together.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Are you going to be partners with him?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
If he wants me to, and I guess he will when I
show him Benny Davis's letter. That's the hard
part, getting acquainted. I'd have broke away a
long while ago only for my sister. I couldn't
leave her alone.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Is she in Schenectady?
</p>
<p>
FRED (nods)<br />
She got married a week ago Saturday. A fella
I been working with in the shipping department—
Bob Gifford.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
She'll miss you just the same. I know how
sisters feel, especially when their brother is like
you or Dick.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, anyway, she got married, and I give them
a pair of book-ends.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
She'll love them!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
She always done everything for me—I mean,
cooked my meals and sewed things for me. Look!
(Dives for his bag and starts opening it.) She
made me a half a dozen shirts before I left. Different
colors. Here's one of the blue ones. I bet
if you was to buy a shirt like that, you couldn't
buy a shirt like that under a dollar seventy-five.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'll bet it would cost more than that.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Marion can sew, all right. My mother used to
say she was a born seamstress.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I love to sew. (Looks at the shirt.) Has it got
your monogram, your initials?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No. She was going to put a &quot;F&quot; on the sleeve,
but she was too busy.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It's too bad you're not my brother and I'd embroider
your whole initials.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You don't have to be a man's sister to embroider their shirt.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I don't want you to misjudge me, Mr. Stevens.
I'm not the kind of a girl that talks to strangers.
My friends would die if they knew I was talking
to a man whom I had not been properly introduced.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You don't need to be scared of me, girlie. I
treat all women like they was my sister. Till I
find out different.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
A girl alone in New York can't be too careful,
especially a girl in my position. You take at Dr.
Quinn's, where I work—he's one of the best dentists
there is, and he has lots of men patients that
would be only too glad to start a little flirtation.
Why even Doctor himself was fresh, the first day
I met him. It turned out he wasn't really, but it
seemed that way. He put his arm around my
shoulders and I jumped away from him like he
was a leopard or something, and I told him, I said,
&quot;Doctor, I guess I don't care to work here after
all.&quot; Then he laughed and said forget it, that he
was just testing me. He said he didn't want an
assistant who was inclined to flirt. And from that
day he's never made any advances, except once or
twice.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
He'd keep his distance if I was around.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I wish you could be.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I got plenty of excuses for being there. I got
a cavity as big as the Grand Canyon.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(laughing a little harder than is necessary)<br />
You must forgive me laughing. Caroline used
to tell me I had the keenest sense of humor of any
person she ever met.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
First thing you know I'll be in to see Dr.
What's-His-Name myself.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
He'll fix it for you. He's a wonderful dentist.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
If I come, it'll probably be when he's out to
lunch.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Then what would you come for?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'll let you guess.
I'd rather
you
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
told me. I'm a bad guesser.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I might come to see you. Would you let me?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'd love it, if you wanted to.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I wouldn't say so if I didn't.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You'll forget all about it.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, I won't. Your smile will always haunt me.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'll bet you're a wonderful song-writer. No
wonder your friends gave you that big dinner.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It certainly was quite a banquet. I bet some
of my pals got a headache to-day, all right.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I hope you haven't got one.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No. Liquor don't afflict me like most people.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I hardly ever touch it myself, only once in a
great while, at a party.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Girls ought to lay off it entirely.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(quickly covering her slip)<br />
I never touch it.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Take some of those women in Schenectady and
they want to go out somewhere every night and
guzzle. Married women, too.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I don't see how they can, with a home to take
care of.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Either they get all dressed up and drag their
husband to a dance or a card party every night,
or either they lay around the house in a wrapper.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
When I marry I'll be just as careful of my appearance
as I am now. I believe a husband appreciates
a wife dressing up for him.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(ever the practical soul)<br />
If it ain't too expensive.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
The man I marry won't have any complaints.
I make practically all my own clothes. Caroline
—she's the girl I used to live with—she used to
say I always looked like I had just stepped out of
a bandbox, even if we were only sitting in our
room. We hardly ever went out evenings; personally
I prefer to stay home and read, or else
just sit and dream. But still I always bathe and
change my clothes even when I'm only going to
cook dinner.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I think I'll take a room with a bathroom when
I get to the hotel.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Where are you going to stay?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
The Hotel Somerset. They got rooms with a
bathroom right in the room, so you don't have to
go out of the room. And it's close to the music
publishing houses and the Friars' Club—any place
I want to go, I can walk. Except to Paul Sears'
place. He probably lives in some swell apartment,
or maybe a country place in Great Neck or
Jamaica.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
A successful man like he wouldn't live in Jamaica.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, some place. I don't know much about
New York; I only been there once before, with
Carl Williams. He's the fella that made the
speech last night. It was the first time he's been
away from home in the evening since he was married.
He's got a wife and baby now.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(so impulsively)<br />
Oh, I'm dying to have a baby! (She catches
herself.) Heavens! I didn't mean to say that. I
love them so.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's nothing against a woman to like babies.
Carl's wife certainly likes hers. She's made him
a nice home, too. He didn't have to buy hardly
anything in the way of furniture; her grandmother
gave her a bedroom suit and she bought
some herself with money she saved while she was
working at Berger's.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
She must be a good deal like myself. I could
almost start housekeeping with the things I've
got. I suppose I'm silly and old-fashioned, but
I always thought a girl should bring her husband
something besides herself. I even wouldn't mind
going on working after I was married, till my
husband established himself.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
The girl I marry won't never have to work. I
don't believe God ever meant for a woman to endure
a life of druggery.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh, Mr. Stevens, if only all men felt the same
way!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(a look at his watch)<br />
My, it's nine twenty-six already.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It's been a shorter trip than usual, for some
reason.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(trying to peer out the window)<br />
I wonder where we're at now?
</p>
<p>
EDNA (also peering)<br />
Pretty near Yonkers, I guess.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
If we was on the other side we could see the
Hudson River.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
My, but it's dark!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
There's a moon out.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Yes, I love it.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
June—moon.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I just said June moon.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It isn't June. It's October.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I know, but June and moon go together. They
rhyme. I'm always thinking of words that rhyme,
even when I ain't working.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
That'd be a catchy name, June Moon. For a
song, I mean.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes, you could get other words to go with it.
Spoon, and croon, and soon. Marry soon, or
something.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
And macaroon.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yeah. I wish I had some. I'm hungry.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I am, too, kind of. (After a pause.) Some day
when that song is published and people are singing
it everywhere, I'll say to my friends, &quot;I knew
the man that wrote that. We were riding on a
train and he looked out and saw the moon, and
he thought of this song, and then the train got
to New York and he never saw poor little me
again.&quot;
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You won't be telling the truth, because I'm
going to see you again.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You say that now. But you'll forget all about me.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, I won't. Are you going right home when
we get in?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Why—I intended to. (She sits up, expectantly.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I thought I'd go and get something to eat some
place, only I wouldn't know where to go if I didn't
have somebody with me that knowed where to go.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I can tell you a place where I go once in a
while, the Little Venice. Though most of the time
I stay home and cook my own dinner, just because I love to cook.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It'll be a little late to cook to-night. I was
wondering if you wouldn't go along to this place,
and maybe we could eat together.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'd love to.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It ain't a very expensive place, is it?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh, no. The last time I went, there was two of
us and we had hot roast beef sandwiches, and
peas, and coffee, and it only came to a dollar-twenty.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(with vast relief)<br />
All right. I guess we can each afford sixty
cents.
</p>
<p>
(THAT WINDS UP THE PROLOGUE)
</p>
<h2>Act I</h2>
<p>
The scene is one of those Riverside Drive apartments,
in a place called New York City. It is up
in the neighborhood of One Hundred and Sixteenth
Street, and once it was pretty good. It's
a bit run down now, and since people began moving
to the East Side the neighborhood has become
somewhat declassee—not more so, however, than
PAUL SEARS, the tenant of this particular apartment.
</p>
<p>
We see the living-room, if you can call it living.
There is a piano, because PAUL SEARS is a
composer. The rest of the furniture is what you
might imagine, or worse.
</p>
<p>
PAUL, a commonplace-looking man in his middle
thirties, is at the piano when the curtain
rises. He is in his shirt sleeves and is alternately
hitting a few discouraged keys and making probably
meaningless notations on the music sheet in
front of him. He lacks one finger of being a two-fingered
piano player. He is laboriously going
over the same phrase again and again. And if
you had never even heard it once, it would be too
often.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE, his wife, comes on from the rear
rooms of the apartment. A spare but still attractive
woman, on whom three years of marriage
with PAUL SEARS have left their mark. She
looks around for something. Finds it. It turns out
to be a copy of the &quot;Graphic.&quot; She drops listlessly
into a chair and starts to read. PAUL continues
torturing the piano.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(addressing herself more than PAUL, as she scans her paper)<br />
What do you know about that! Myra Vale's
engaged!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I read it. Automobile man. Probably drives a
truck.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
If he does, at least she'll have something to go
places in.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I got Myra her first job; I introduced her to
Dillingham.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yes, you did! She was in &quot;Nanette&quot; with Eileen
and me before you ever saw her.
</p>
<p>
PAUL (belligerently)<br />
Who says so?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Ask the doorman down at the Globe. He used
to have to carry her in.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
She never took a drink when I knew her.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I can vouch for that.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(jumping up from the piano)<br />
This is the last time I'll work with Fagan! I
rewrite two whole bars of the melody for him, and
when I ask him to change one word of his lyric,
he squawks. He's got it &quot;as a rose in June,&quot; and
I want him to make it &quot;as roses in June.&quot; Listen—here's
his way (he plays and sings): &quot;As a
rose in June.&quot; And here's the way I want it: &quot;As
roses in June.&quot; All the difference in the world.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (wearily)<br />
It sounds just the same to me.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
My way gives me a triplet and makes it twice
as effective! Listen! (Starts hitting the same old
notes.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Oh, isn't that enough? (PAUL stops.) Must I
sit around all night listening to that?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Why don't you go out? You could go out if
you want to.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Who with?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You could go out with Eileen. You and her
could go somewhere.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You know she's got a date with Hart. I suppose
you want me trailing along.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Well, I explained to you I can't go no place,
with this fella coming up. I told you a dozen
times.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I don't expect you to take me anywhere, except
maybe for a walk around the block. That's free.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I don't enjoy laying around here no more than
do. I'm not a nun.
you
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
That's the first I've heard about it.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You wait till this number gets over. We'll go
everywhere then.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (tiredly)<br />
Oh, sure!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You haven't heard it played yet. It'll be another
&quot;Paprika.&quot; Did I tell you what Dave
Stamper said about it?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (quickly)<br />
Yes!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(just as though she'd said &quot;No&quot;)<br />
He said it was another &quot;Paprika.&quot; You wait
till you hear it played. Dave Stamper says it's
sure fire. (Back to his &quot;playing&quot; again.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
The silliest thing in the world to me is a man
trying to be a composer when he can't even play
&quot;Chopsticks.&quot;
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I can play as good as I need to. I can play as
good as Berlin, and he's turned out twice as many
hits as anybody.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
He knows what people want. He appeals to
the women.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
It ruins a composer to play the piano too good.
They depend on fancy harmony and tempo, instead
of pretty melodies.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (giving up)<br />
All right.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(his eye drawn to the newspaper)<br />
Did you read that thing from that Boston
paper about &quot;Pretty Polly&quot;? They say Gershwin
hasn't given them one tune. (He's pretty pleased
about it, too.) Ten years from now, nobody'll
know there was a Gershwin. He won't live.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
At least he won't starve to death.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
It was me that was responsible for Gershwin
getting his start. I brought him and Georgie
White together.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(simply not listening)<br />
Why can't you see this man in the daytime instead of asking him up here?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Because I don't want him to come in the office
yet, that's why. I'm keeping him under cover till
I get rid of Fagan.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
If there's one thing that'll round out my day,
it's entertaining a lyric-writer.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
This fella ain't like the rest of them. He's got
a fresh slant. Take fellas like Fagan, that's been
around Broadway all their life, and all their lyrics
sound just alike. If Fagan gave me a new idea,
I'd drop dead. But this fella's got a fresh slant.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Fagan would drop even deader if you gave him
a new tune.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I gave him &quot;Paprika,&quot; didn't I?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
That's so long ago I don't see how you remember it.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Old man Goebel remembers it, and so does Hart.
They made enough money out of it.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(the eternal wife)<br />
Everybody makes money but you.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yes, they do! There's plenty fellas around the
club that's just as flat as I am.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(ever so brightly)<br />
That makes everything all right.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I'll tell you who's got money, if you want to
know, and that's Stevens.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Who?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
This lyric-writer, Stevens. He's got money.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
A lot of good that'll do me.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
He's a nice kid, too. (His eye falls on his
watch.) If Eileen's got a date with Hart, why
don't she keep it? It's half past eight.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Don't you worry about that.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What about him and her, anyway? If she's
engaged to him, aren't they ever going to get
married?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You'll know as soon
as there's anything to
know.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
He'll wriggle off the hook some way. If you
ask me he's getting tired of her already.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(with sudden interest)<br />
What makes you think so?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Just the luck I'm running in. If I ever marry
again, it'll be a woman without a sister.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
She don't cost you much, and she's company
for me.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What's the matter with her getting a job somewheres?<br />
(The telephone rings.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yeah. You ought to be able to place her, with
your influence.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(at the telephone)<br />
Hello.... Oh, hello, Maxie!
(There enters, from the rear rooms, EILEEN.
She has been drawn by the ring of the telephone,
and comes on eagerly, expectantly. She is a
young woman in her late twenties, and has plenty
of good old-fashioned sex appeal. But with it she
is a bit hard, a trifle worldly. She wears a good-looking
and rather revealing negligée, and is carrying
what seems to be an evening dress, on which
she has been sewing, or trying to sew. She stops
short as she senses that the phone call is not for
her; relaxes. From her mouth comes a cloud of
cigarette smoke. PAUL, of course, has kept right
on with his phone conversation.)<br/>
<br/>
Sure—going to be here all evening.... All
right.... Fine! (He hangs up; turns to LUCILLE.)
Maxie's coming over. Wait till you hear
him play it—(a gesture toward his music)—then
you'll see!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(drifting over to LUCILLE)<br />
What time is it?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(going right on)<br />
It's going to be another &quot;Paprika.&quot;
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(reaching for the dress that EILEEN has
brought along)<br />
Want me to do that?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I'll go crazy, waiting around here!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(you can't stop him)<br />
If I team up with this new fella you'll hear some
hits.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(handing over the paper to EILEEN)<br />
Did you see this? Myra Vale's announced her
engagement.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Who to, for God's sake?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Nobody we know.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (reading)<br />
No. And nobody that knows her, you can bet
on that.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Paul was trying to tell me he got her her first
job; introduced her to Dillingham.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Oh, sure. He introduced Rogers to Peet, didn't
he?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(indicating the dress)<br />
This isn't going to last much longer.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I know it.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Why don't you look around Monday? See what
you can find.
Maybe I will.
I'm lazy, I guess.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I've just been putting it off.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I'd never be too lazy to shop, if I had anything
to shop with.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You wait till this number gets over.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(quite pleasantly)<br />
By that time I'll only want a shawl.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(finally flaring up)<br />
There's nothing helps a man like being married
to a woman that always encourages you and
looks on the bright side. I'm going to write an
article for the American Magazine, saying I attribute
my success to my wife.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why don't you try writing articles? They
might be pretty near as good as your tunes.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You don't have to worry about my tunes. Anyhow,
I was talking to Lucille.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
It's time you did something more for Lucille
besides talk to her!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
If I was in your place, I'd keep pretty still in
this house. That is, unless I was paying board.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(it's a good battle, by this time)<br />
Don't you dare say I'm dependent on you, because I'm not!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Only for your meals and a place to sleep!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You wouldn't even have a job if it wasn't for
me! Do you think Hart is keeping you on the
staff because you wrote a hit three years ago?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Now!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Well, make him lay off me, if he knows what's
good for him. If he keeps riding me, he'll be looking
for a new job!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Swell chance of them letting me out when I've
got a number like &quot;Montana.&quot; I'd run right to
Harms with it.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Harms wouldn't let you in their elevator!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(as he goes proudly into the next room)
I was in it this afternoon!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (a long, long sigh)<br />
Is Hart going to phone or isn't he? It gets me
crazy, this waiting.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I wouldn't mind waiting if there was something
to wait for. I nearly go out of my mind, just
sitting. You hear women brag about the nice,
cozy evenings they spend at home with their husband.
They're not married to a piano tuner with
ten thumbs.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(hoping against hope)<br />
Maybe he didn't get back from Philadelphia.
He might still be over there.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What time was he going to call up?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Six o'clock. He said he'd call me the minute
he got in. Maybe the train was late.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
They aren't late very often, from Philadelphia.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
It's the only evening we'll have for three weeks,
with him going away again to-morrow. (Restlessly
pacing.) If he was going to be late you'd
think he'd try to reach me.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Of course, you know him better than I do, but
when a man's really crazy about a girl, he calls
her up, I don't care what he's doing. It's only
when he begins cooling off that he finds excuses,
like being in Philadelphia.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
But he was in Philadelphia.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I know, but they've got phones there now, too.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
If you think he's cooling off you're crazy! He's
insanely jealous. When I told him I was thinking
of going out with Bert Livingston he was
sore as hell. He said, &quot;All right, go ahead and
go out with him.&quot; I asked him if he meant it, and
he said, &quot;Sure! Go out with the whole Lambs
Club!&quot; He's insanely jealous and tries to hide it.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I'd go out with the janitor if he asked me.
God, I'm sick of this place!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why don't you go to a picture?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
They charge admission. (A little sardonic
laugh.) Remember the way I used to figure when
Paul first came along? I thought marrying a
song-writer meant going to all the first nights,
meeting everybody that was worthwhile, going
down to Palm Beach—
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You would, too, if Paul was any good.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I wonder what it'd be like if we'd stayed in
Stroudsburg. I'd probably be married to Will
Broderick, and we'd have a car—
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
To drive over to Scranton in.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (a sigh)<br />
I suppose I ought to get consolation out of one
thing. I never expect a phone call or a mash
note or an invitation or even a half pound box of
candy. Whatever happens is velvet.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You're a fool if you keep it up. You ought to
break away while there's still time.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
That's an easy thing to say. I haven't got any
grounds, in the first place.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You wouldn't need grounds. Just get him up
in court and let the judge look at him.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
And even if I did get free, where am I? I'm
not young any more. No man under sixty would
look at me.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Well, men over sixty are more liable to have
money than boy scouts.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I don't like old men.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Who does? Just the same, they've got their
good points. They sleep eighteen hours a day.
And they're like little kids-they believe everything
you tell them.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I never could fool anybody. That's why I've
been afraid to try anything, with Paul. He knows
when I'm lying to him, every time.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Him! He isn't even listening to you! You
could have callers right in this room and he
wouldn't hear them come in—not with all those
God-given melodies ringing in his ears.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What's the use of talking about it? There
haven't been any volunteers. Women can't go
wrong if they're not invited.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
All I can say is, if you don't break away from
him, you're crazy!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
And if I did, do you know what would happen?
He'd write ten smash hits in a week. That's my
luck.... God! It would be wonderful to have
some clothes and hold up my head again!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I'm through arguing with you. You're hopeless.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You'd better be thinking about Mr. Hart. You
may be as bad off as I am.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Don't you worry about me! If he wasn't crazy
about me, why would he be so insanely jealous?
He's insanely jealous!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Has he ever said anything half-way definite?
About marrying, I mean?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Not in words, exactly.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What did he say it in?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He must be thinking of it. He doesn't ever go
out with anybody else.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(trying to recall what EILEEN had said)<br />
How long's he going to be gone this time—three weeks?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Yeah—about. He's got to go to Chicago, and—a lot of places.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What are you going to do with yourself all
that time—just sit around?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Maybe he'll treat us to some shows—I'll ask
him to-night. Maybe he'll get us seats for some
shows.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Do they still have seats at shows?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (restless again)<br />
Only I wish that thing would ring!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Why <em>don't</em> you go out with Bert or somebody,
while he's gone? It might be a good thing for
him.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Do you want to get me murdered? I tell you
he's insanely jealous. (The door bell rings.)
Who's that?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Maxie, I guess. (Starting for the door.) Or
maybe that lyric-writer.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Who?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(disappearing into the hallway, talking
as she goes)<br />
<em>You</em> know, that's coming to see Paul. From
Albany or some place.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Oh!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Of course he couldn't meet him in the daytime.
He has to bring him up here in the middle of the
night— (Having opened the outside door.) Oh,
it's you!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE (outside)<br />
Hello, there!
</p>
<p>
(PAUL comes back into the room.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Who is it? Maxie?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Yah, Maxie. (He is a man in his late forties,
easy-going, kindly. Wears a dinner coat. He is
an arranger for Goebel's, and he knows the popular
song business backwards.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Hello!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Well! All staying home on a Saturday night?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
All nights are alike up here.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You didn't come right up from the office, did
you?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(indicates his dinner coat)<br />
Do I look it? I'm playing down at the Orchard
this week. Pounding the piano for a lot of morons.
I envy you people that can spend an evening at home.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (with emphasis)<br />
Yes. It's a great treat.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I want the girls to hear the &quot;Montana&quot; number,
the way it sounds when it's really played.
</p>
<p>
(EILEEN starts to go.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
O. K.<br />
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(stopping EILEEN)<br />
Hey! He's going to play the &quot;Montana&quot;
number.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
That's all right. I'll close the door. (She
leaves.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Go ahead, Maxie. She don't know anything.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Think of me slaving down at the Orchard
while you people enjoy all the comforts of home.
</p>
<p>
(An impatient movement from LUCILLE.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Go ahead with &quot;Montana.”
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
It certainly was a tough day for me when
Edison invented the piano. Fixing up other people's
tunes—there's a life work for you.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Go on.
</p>
<p>
ΜΑΧΙΕ<br />
(his fingers rambling over the keys)<br />
You know, I might have been a song-writer myself
but I got stuck on my own stuff. I wrote
tunes nobody ever heard before—they wouldn't
stand for it.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(prompting with a gesture)<br />
&quot;Montana.&quot;
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(about to start, but resumes talking instead)<br />
That was a great idea of Fagan's, writing a
lyric about Montana. I've often wondered why
lyric writers stayed out of the Northwest.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Maybe Fagan was born there.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Naw! Shamokin, Pennsylvania. If song-writers
always wrote about their home state, what a big
Jewish population Tennessee must have. (He
starts playing a popular tune—the telephone
rings. PAUL takes it up.)
·
·
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Hello. This is him.... Oh, hello!...
Where are you at now?... Well, you better
hop in a taxi—it's quite a ways yet. (EILEEN
makes another expectant appearance in the doorway—departs
in disappointment as she learns
that it still isn't her call.) 448 Riverside Drive.
Tell him just above 116th Street.... That's it.
(He hangs up; addresses MAXIE, who continues to
drum.) That's Stevens, the lyric writer I was
telling you about. From Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Thank God he can't get that in a lyric.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
He had the phone number, but he didn't know
the address.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
How'd he get the phone number?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Telephone book, I guess.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
And then he called up for the address? (She
shakes her head—it's too much for her.) I want
to meet him.
</p>
<p>
PAUL (to MAXIE)<br />
You'll like this fella. He's young yet. He's got
a fresh slant.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
What does he do—write about counties instead
of states?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I've been thinking maybe he and I could do
something together, if I can get rid of Fagan.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Fagan isn't so bad. Only he's using up his
ideas too fast. &quot;Montana Moon.&quot; He puts a
state and a moon all in one song.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Are you going to play it? (MAXIE plunges
into the preliminary chords; PAUL comes to life
and sets himself to sing. Raises a warning finger
in the direction of LUCILLE.) Now listen!
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Golden West that seems so far away,  </p>
<p>Golden girl for whom I'm always pining,  </p>
<p>Don't you know I love you night and day,  </p>
<p>But chiefly when the full bright moon is shining!”  </p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(He takes new breath for the chorus. LUCILLE,
meanwhile, is listening intently, but hardly enthusiastically.
In fact, you might almost think
she didn't like it so much.)
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Montana moonlight,  </p>
<p>As bright as noon light,  </p>
<p>Oh, may it soon light  </p>
<p>    My way to you!  </p>
<p>I know you're lonely,  </p>
<p>My one and only,  </p>
<p>For I am lonely,  </p>
<p>    Yes, lonely, too.&quot;  </p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(At this point LUCILLE simply goes back to her
sewing. PAUL's tone grows sharper as he sings,
and she resigns herself to further listening.)
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;My heart is yearning. </p>
<p>For kisses burning,  </p>
<p>For lips as sweet as a rose in June.  </p>
<p>I'm always dreaming. </p>
<p>Of your eyes gleaming,  </p>
<p>Beneath the beaming. </p>
<p>    Montana Moon!&quot;</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(MAXIE plunges into a second chorus as PAUL
presses LUCILLE for an opinion.) Don't it sound
great? The way Maxie plays it?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(delivering the verdict)<br />
I don't think Berlin will kill himself.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
It's nothing like Berlin. Play it in two-four
and it's a great dance tune. (MAXIE is obliging.
PAUL sings a strain of it and dances.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You don't get Berlin's songs to dance to. You
get them to cry to.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
All right. You can cry to this, too. &quot;My heart
is yearning for kisses burning.&quot; That's sad.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yes, but there's something behind his songs.
(Sighs.) They're sympathetic.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Do you want to know why? Because he gets
a little sympathy now and then! He's appreciated
at home! He don't sit around here night
after night with you yapping your head off at
him, telling him he's all through!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Now, now! You're going to write plenty of
hits.
</p>
<p>
PAUL (sits)<br />
Well, it makes a fellow lose confidence in himself.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I'm trying to help you, not hurt you.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You go about it in a funny way.
(EILEEN comes back; is lighting a cigarette.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
She doesn't mean anything. Of course she
wants to help you. But this number—I wouldn't
count on it too much if I were you.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What do you mean?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Why not?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I just wouldn't—that's all. You can't tell
which way they're going to jump these days.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
They'll snap this one up. Unless they're crazy.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Keep still a minute. (To MAXIE) What's happened?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE (reluctant)<br />
Nothing definite. Only they were talking about
it—Hart and Goebel.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
When were they?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(has heard just enough)<br />
What did you say?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Huh? I said Hart and Goebel were talking
about Paul's new number.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
When?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What did they say about it?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You mean they were talking about it to-day?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Sort of.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
In the office, you mean?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Yah. Sure.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
What time?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I don't know. Five o'clock.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Goebel and—Hart both?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Yah. Why? (EILEEN takes a moment to digest
this bit of information; her eyes meet LUCILLE'S.
Then, with a sudden movement, she turns and
leaves the room. LUCILLE, after a thoughtful second,
follows her out. MAXIE looks after them,
uncomprehending. Then he turns back to Paul.)
Did I say something dirty?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
That don't matter. What did they say about
the song?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
But I don't understand—
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Listen—what did they do? Turn it down?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(he has to say it)
Right now they don't want it.
</p>
<p>
PAUL (hotly)<br />
When did they hear it? After I left?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
They asked me, so there was nothing for me to
do but give it to them. I had Nate sing it.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
It's the lyric kills it! The melody's sure fire!
Even if it don't sell over the counter it'd get a
good mechanical break.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE (brightly)<br />
Maybe you could sell it outside.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
It makes a man look like a fool, working for
one house and selling your stuff to another. (He
drops into a chair, discouraged.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You mustn't let it worry you. The next one'll
be great, and you'll forget all about this.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What else did they say—when they heard it?
Anything about me?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
What could they say about you?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
If I don't deliver pretty soon they'll let me out.
I'll be like all those fellows that come around
every day with another tune. (The door bell
sounds.) I guess this is Stevens.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Who?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Stevens—that lyric writer.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Maybe he's just what you need. Maybe he'll
make all the difference in the world.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
His stuff's pretty good—what I've seen of it.
(Disappears into the vestibule.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE (cheerily)<br />
There you are! Everything'll be fine! You
see! (He is playing the piano again.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(in the hallway)<br />
Hello, Stevens! Glad to see you!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Hello, Mr. Sears!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Put your hat and coat on the chair. Come
right in! This is Maxie—Mr. Schwartz. Shake
hands with Mr. Stevens.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Glad to meet you, Mr. Schwartz.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(playing with one hand and shaking hands
with the other)<br />
Hello, Stevens.
</p>
<p>
(LUCILLE strolls back, eyeing the new arrival.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
And this is my wife. Dear, this is Mr. Stevens.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
How are you?
</p>
<p>
FRED (right there with an answer)<br />
I'm all right.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Paul tells me you're a song-writer yourself.
</p>
<p>
FRED (modestly)<br />
Just the words.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Well, that's all Paul needs—that and the
music.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I've always been one of Mr. Sears' greatest
admirers. I've admired Mr. Sears ever since he
wrote &quot;Paprika.”
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You've got a good memory.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Maybe Stevens and I will turn out another
&quot;Paprika.&quot;
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'm anxious to get started, all right. Since I
got to town, all I've done so far is spend money.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (expansively)<br />
Well, you're quite a stranger!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Sit down.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Thanks. I guess I'm a little late. I got off
the wrong subway station and there was an old
woman there selling papers, and I stopped and
talked to her because I knew she must be somebody's
mother.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(who has never stopped playing)<br />
A fresh slant.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I was right too, because she told me she has six
sons. I feel sorry for old women that has to earn
their living.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What do the boys do—rent her the stand?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, most of them are in a hospital and two of
them had their foot cut off. She told me all about
it and I give her a dollar.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You want to be careful in a place like New
York. There's all kinds of people waiting to take
your money away from you.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's a great city, all right. To-day I took the
ferry-boat over to Staten's Island and back. (He
explains it to LUCILLE.) It's an island and you
have to take a ferry-boat. But I suppose you
been there.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I go there a lot—just for the trip.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I seen the Goddest of Liberty, too—I mean the
statue. It cost a million dollars and weighs 225
ton.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE (gently)<br />
She ought to cut out sweets. (He indulges in
a fancy run.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(a gesture in the direction of MAXIE)<br />
He can play the piano!... And I seen some
of the big ocean liner steamboats. I seen the
<i>President Harding</i> just coming in from London or
Europe or somewheres, and the other day I seen
the Majestic tied up to the dock. She's pretty
near twicet as long as the <i>President Harding</i> and
weighs 56,000 ton. The <i>President Harding</i> only
weighs 14,000 ton.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Imagine!
</p>
<p>
FRED (to LUCILLE)<br />
Have you been through the Holland Tunnel?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
No, I haven't.
</p>
<p>
FRED (to PAUL)<br />
Have you been through the Holland Tunnel?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
No.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(not for a minute giving up)<br />
Have you been through the Holland Tunnel,
Mr. Schwartz?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I've been waiting for somebody to go with.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'll go with you!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Fine!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I want to go every place so as to get ideas for
songs. I was telling Mr. Sears about one idea—
I haven't got it written yet-it's a song about the
traffic lights. Green for &quot;Come ahead!&quot; and red
for &quot;Stop!&quot; Maybe a comical song with a girl
signaling her sweetheart with different colored
lights in the window; a green light when it's all
right for him to call—
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
And a red one when her husband's home.
</p>
<p>
FRED (shocked)<br />
No, I was thinking about her father. I wouldn't
write about those kind of women- -I got no sympathy for them.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I guess you're right.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I was thinking of another idea on the way up
here. Maybe a song about the melting pots—all
the immigrants from overseas who've come to the
Land of Liberty. Take the Jews—do you know
there's nearly two million Jews in New York City
alone?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
What do you mean alone?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
And then there's the Hall of Fame, up to
Washington Heights. They got everybody up
there. Washington, Lincoln, Longfellow. They
got two dozen—what do you call 'em—busts?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(sweetly, to PAUL)<br />
That's the place for you, dear.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No. A man's got to be dead for twenty-five
years.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Well, that fits in.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(it's too much for him)<br />
I've got to be going along.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Wait! I want Stevens to show you one of his
lyrics—have you got that one with you? About
the game?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I've got to be downtown at ten.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
This won't take a minute. (To FRED.) Go
ahead.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'll have to explain first, so you'll understand.
The idea came to me at a football game between
Syracuse and Colgate. They beat them, and they
felt pretty bad, so the idea come to me for this
little song. I call it &quot;Life Is a Game.&quot;
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
A novelty!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Here's the verse. Are you ready?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yeah.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;I don't know why some people cry  </p>
<p>When things appear to go wrong;  </p>
<p>I always say 'Laugh and be gay!'  </p>
<p>Things cannot always go wrong!  </p>
<p>No use to pine, no use to whine,  </p>
<p>Things will come right if you just give them time.&quot;</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
That's the verse.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Uh-huh!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Then here's the refrain:
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&gt; &quot;Life is a game; we are but players—&quot;</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Hey, bring it here! Maybe we can put some
music to it.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Just play some chords.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I'll see if I know any.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(sings as well as he can to MAXIE'S
improvisation)
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Life is a game; we are but players  </p>
<p>Playing the best we know how.  </p>
<p>If you are beat, don't let it wrangle;  </p>
<p>No one can win all the time.  </p>
<p>Sometimes the odds seem dead against you;  </p>
<p>What has to be, has to be,  </p>
<p>But smile just the same, for life is a game,  </p>
<p>And God is a fine referee.”</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(MAXIE picks up the last line and sings it again,
tacking on a rousing musical finale to fit. It is
really the finish of &quot;All Those Endearing Young
Charms,&quot; but so far as FRED is concerned it has
been composed especially for his lyric. He is
beaming with pleasure.)
</p>
<p>
I haven't got the second verse yet.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You won't need one.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I like a song with love interest.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, I got an idea and a title for another one
—I mean, of course I got lots of ideas, but this
one, I told it to a party and she—(he catches
himself, embarrassed)—I mean, this party seemed
to think it was pretty good.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Let's hear it.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's just a title. You told me you'd rather have
just a title and then write the tune first.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What's the title?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
&quot;June Moon.&quot; That's the title—&quot;June Moon.&quot;
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
A war song.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, no. The verse will be about a fella that's
met a girl in June, when there was a moon shining,
and then something happened so that she
went away, or maybe he went away, and then
whenever he looks up at the moon after that, he
thinks of her. In the second verse, she'll be doing
the same thing for him.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
That's fair enough.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I don't know-another moon song.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(dashing to the piano)<br />
&quot;June Moon&quot;—I've got it!
</p>
<p>
(He ad-libs a melody; FRED chimes in with
some extemporized words.)
</p>
<p>
FRED (singing)<br />
June Moon, how I wish you so-and-so, how I
miss my so-and-so, spoon! (He comes out strong
on the &quot;spoon&quot;—that's right, anyhow.)
</p>
<p>
(Meanwhile the phone has rung again, and under
cover of the music LUCILLE has answered it.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Hello.... No, this is Lucille. Just a minute.
(She puts down the receiver.) Eileen!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(who has managed, despite the confusion, to
make mental note of MAXIE's melody)<br />
Well, I might be able to dig up something for
that.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(plunging expansively into explanation)<br />
I got the idea coming in on the train. I happened
to look out of the window—
</p>
<p>
(He stops abruptly as EILEEN comes back on.
She has put on a dress, but, in view of the news
that MAXIE had brought, not the evening dress.
She looks smart, however, and FRED is impressed,
to say the least. Paying no attention to any one,
she heads straight for the telephone.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Hello!... Oh, no, not at all. (To say that
the lady is sarcastic is putting it mildly.) What
train?... You're sure of that, are you?
Nothing, only I thought you might be mistaken.
Everybody makes mistakes, you know. (It's a
good chance for MAXIE to escape, and he leaps up.
While EILEEN is still talking he manages to get
out— <i>&quot;Good-by, everybody! I'm due at the Orchard! Glad to have met you, Stevens,&quot;</i>
etc. PAUL follows him out with: &quot;Now look! Don't
say anything to Fagan, because I don't want him
to know until—&quot; The voices die out. FRED,
a bit embarrassed, is left alone with the two girls,
while EILEEN continues her phone talk.) Yes, I
can imagine. It must have been terribly tiresome
in Philadelphia all day.... What?... Oh, really?
(Her tone indicates that this is the body
blow.) I thought you were leaving to-morrow.
...What time to-night?... My, it must be
important!... Then—I won't have a chance to
say good-by before you go.... Oh, no, don't
trouble yourself—it's quite all right.... Yes,
I'm sure you are... No, I don't mind a bit.
I'm just sorry you have to spend the night on a
train, that's all.... Oh, perfectly!... Have
a pleasant trip. (But she doesn't mean &quot;pleasant
trip.&quot; She hangs up; a look flashes between her
and LUCILLE.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(coming back to the present)<br />
Mr. Stevens, this is my sister, Miss Fletcher.
Eileen—Mr. Stevens. (She gives a broad wave of
the hand, as if to say, &quot;And if you want him, he's
yours.&quot;)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(her mind on the telephone)<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'm glad to meet you, Miss Fletcher.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Thanks.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Mr. Stevens is a lyric writer. He's from Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Oh, yes. Have you been in New York long?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Just a couple of weeks. I'm from Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (a lot she cares)<br />
Schenectady, eh?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(with the air of a person who is washing
that up)<br />
Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I was with the General Electric Company, but
I left them.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I suppose they've closed down?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(who knows better than that)<br />
No. I had a post-card to-day from a fella that
works there.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Mr. Stevens has been all over New York, getting
ideas for songs.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Do you like it?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes, I like it fine, but it costs money to live
here. For instance, I had breakfast in the hotel
this morning and it was ninety cents for salt
mackerel and mashed potatoes and a cup of Instant Postum.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
No wonder you think New York's expensive!
A few more breakfasts like that and you won't
have any money left.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I still got plenty.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Really? (She flashes a look to EILEEN.) I'll
bet you haven't been to any of the real places,
have you? It takes a New Yorker to find those.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I seen the Goddest of Liberty.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Oh, I mean the night places!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I seen it at night.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Oh, no! Restaurants!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Huh?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Mr. Stevens would love those. (To EILEEN.)
Wouldn't he?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (slowly coming to)<br />
Yah.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I'll tell you what! Why don't we make up a
party—the four of us-and show Mr. Stevens the
town!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You mean to-night?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What do you say, Eileen? How about it?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(thinking hard; her eyes go involuntarily to
the telephone)<br />
Why—sure! I don't know why not! Sure!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, wait! It'd be great to go, all right, only
the trouble is I got another engagement!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Oh, but you could put that off!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Of course you could!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (as PAUL re-enters)<br />
Paul had another engagement, too. He broke
it on your account, didn't you, dear?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(to whom this is news)<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
We thought it would be fun for the four of us
to go out some place, but Mr. Stevens doesn't
want to.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It ain't that I don't want to, but—
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You know, you really ought to. Paul was just
saying that what you needed was to go places
where they do the latest numbers and hear what
kind of songs are getting over! That's true, isn't
it, Paul?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Ah, yes! Sure!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Of course it is! Are we all set?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, I want to go all right. It's only I don't
know on account of this other engagement.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
But you could do something about that. You
could go if
you really wanted to. (So close to him
that he is groggy.) Don't you—want to?
</p>
<p>
FRED (hesitating)<br />
Well, I ain't dressed to go out. I mean, to
some swell place.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
We'll go where we don't have to dress.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
How about the Orchard? Wouldn't Maxie be
surprised to see the four of us stroll in?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Lucille and I'll go right in and get our things
on. (A movement.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Well, wait a minute! It's just that I didnt
happen to bring much money with me—
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Oh, that's all right. Mr. Stevens can be the
treasurer to-night and you can fix it up with him
later!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
As long as you're going to be partners!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Come on! Let's hurry!
</p>
<p>
(The GIRLS rush off.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Is that all right with you?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(looking after the pair)<br />
Say, she's quite a girl, isn't she?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Who? Eileen?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Does she live here with you all the time?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yah. She does.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
She's a regular New York girlie.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Maybe it wouldn't be a bad notion for you to
knock around a few nights—I mean, before we
start working. Might give you some ideas.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'm willing.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Great!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Say, can I use your phone a minute?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Sure. Do you want the book?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, I know the number. (Takes receiver off.)
Rhinelander 4160.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I'd better clean up a bit.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Look! They was talking about this Orchard.
That ain't one of them expensive places, is it?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
No. Just about average.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Hello.... I want to speak to Miss Edna
Baker, please.... Yes. (To PAUL.) I mean,
what do you think it would be likely to come to
for the four of us? More than ten dollars?
</p>
<p>
PAUL (vaguely)<br />
No—not unless we go on to some other place.
You've got more with you, haven't you?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What other place?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
One of the other clubs.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But I don't-hello.... Hello.... Eddie?... I want to tell you something.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I'll go and wash up. (Departs.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, I'm up there now, but that isn't—Sure....
Yeah, it looks all right.... No, I'm still
here. There was a piano player here from Goebel's.
He liked my stuff and made up a tune to
some of it.... Yeah.... He said it was all
right. But that isn't... what I called up to
say was I can't get around there till late....
No, it'll be later than that. There's no telling
what time it'll be.... We got to study some
songs.... Paul Sears and his wife.... No,
no, don't think that. It's a business proposition.
They're taking me to a place where we'll get some
ideas.... Just the three of us.... But you
know I'd rather be with you. (EILEEN comes back,
coat over arm.) But I can't.... I can't....
They're taking me. I'll tell you all about it in the
morning.... That's all I can say now.... I
can't.... In the morning.... Good night.
(Hangs up.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You seem to be having your troubles.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, that wasn't anything. Just a—friend of
mine.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Is she nice?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It isn't anybody. Just a little girl I happened
to meet.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I understand.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
She's just a—a girl from a little town.
</p>
<p>
(LUCILLE comes back, full of life. Pulling on
gloves, etc.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Listen-it's kind of early for the Orchard anyhow.
So why don't we take in the second show at
the Capitol?
</p>
<p>
(PAUL is on again.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Is everybody ready?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Oh, that's fine! And I know what you'd love!
After the Orchard what do you say we go to the
Cotton Club? (She throws a quick explanation to
FRED.) That's Harlem!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Great!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
They've got a wonderful tap dancer up there!
Better than Bill Robinson!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
But say, the Cotton Club don't get hot till
three!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(who has never heard of that hour)<br />
What time?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Oh, that's all right! We can go to the Madrid
or Richman's in between!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Oh, great!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
But say, Richman's burned down the other
night!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Let's not go there!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I'll tell you where I haven't been for a long
while! The St. Regis Roof!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Grand!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
They've a wonderful view!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Where?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
The St. Regis Roof.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I get dizzy if I climb a ladder!
</p>
<p>
(The voices of the others pick up in a confused
jumble as
</p>
<p>
THE CURTAIN FALLS<br />
</p>
<h2>Act II</h2>
<p>
The scene is a room at Goebel's music publishing
house. A piano, a few chairs, some shelves,
and you have it. Three or four weeks have gone
by since Act I.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE is at the piano just amusing himself
when the curtain rises. He is playing &quot;La
Boheme&quot; and cutting loose a trifle. There enters,
from one of the adjacent offices, a young woman
(an employee) known as GOLDIE. She may have
got her name because of the color of her hair or
from the fact that she is really a Miss Goldberg.
That point is never brought up in this play, but
may some day be the subject of a musical comedy.
Anyway, she comes on and busies herself
looking over songs at the music shelves, on which
the hits of these and other days are piled high.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
(busy with her songs)<br />
&quot;There Never Was a Girl Like Mother.&quot;
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Maybe it's all for the best.... How's the
boss? Did he have a good trip?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
He says not. He says in the Middle West
they're still wild over &quot;The Rosary.&quot;
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
That looks like a hit.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Did Benny find you? He was looking for you.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Not yet.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
He's got a new song.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
That's good. I was afraid he was written out.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
You'd better hide if you don't want to hear it.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
No use—he always gets his man. Besides, I've
got to stick around and play Paul's new one,
&quot;June Moon.&quot;
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Is it any good?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
It's got a chance.
It's a tune that's easy to remember,
but if you should forget it it wouldn't
make any difference.
</p>
<p>
(FRED plunges in.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Ain't Mr. Hart back yet?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Not yet.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Don't you even know what time he's coming?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Can't tell. His first day back in town—he's
probably got a lot of things to do. (She goes—
and pretty disrespectfully, too.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's half past four. He said he was coming
back at two o'clock.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You get used to waiting in this game. I've
been in it twenty-two years and nothing's happened yet.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Paul's coming right in. We want to play the
song once before Mr. Hart hears it. I made a
change.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Whereabouts.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
In the refrain. We had it &quot;Sweet night-bird,
hovering above,&quot; now it's &quot;winging aloft.&quot; You
see, &quot;aloft&quot; means the same like &quot;above.”
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Only higher.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I wish I'd known Mr. Hart was going to be
late. I could have slept some more. I had to get
up at twelve.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
That must be tough after working for the
General Electric, where a man's hours are practically his own.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No. I had to be on the job at eight, every
morning. But I went to bed about ten, except
Saturday nights, when I seen a picture or something.
I didn't know what life was, in Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I bet it's an open book to you now.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Imagine—only going out one night a week and
then just to a moving picture show! Down here
it's like as if every night was a special night—
there's always new places to go to. Miss Fletcher
—she's always locating new ones! We was in
three last night! Wound up at half past seven
this morning, in the Bucket of Blood! There's a
lively place! We was the last ones there. Paul
and Lucille, they went home at seven, but I and
Miss Fletcher stayed and she made the proprietor
sell me six bottles of his gin. It's real gin; what
they call pro-war. You got to have good gin.
It's one of the things they put into what they call
a Bronx cocktail.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Is that so?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Didn't you ever have one?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I don't drink. After I listen to songs all day
I don't want liquor. I just go home and take a
general anesthetic.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I like Bronxes best. They're nothing but gin
and orange juice. I don't know why they call it
a Bronx.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
It's great orange country, up there.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Anyway, I got a bargain—six bottles for sixty
bucks. I give Miss Fletcher three bottles for a
present, because if it hadn't been for her I
wouldn't have got them. She made the man do
it. When you're around with her you just can't
resist doing things.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I know. That's why I don't carry a gun.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
She's a great sport, all right. She'd make a
wonderful wife—she's such a good pal. I think
a man's wife ought to be their pal as well as their
sweetheart.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You ought to patent that.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Say—how much money do you think a fella
ought to be making before he could get married?
In New York, I mean?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
It depends on the girl.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Buddy De Sylva makes pretty near half a million
dollars a year out of just writing lyrics. I
guess a man could support a wife on that!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
If she was satisfied to ride a bicycle.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, suppose &quot;June Moon&quot; is a big smash?
What's the most we could make out of it?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
It's hard to say. Take a song like &quot;Swanee
River&quot; and it's still going big.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yeah, but that's because it was in a big production
like &quot;Show Boat.&quot;
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
How's that?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
And with that girl to sing it, that sits on the
piano.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You're thinking of Ruby Keeler in &quot;The Wild
Duck.&quot;
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, whoever it was. (Turns away; suddenly
remembers.) Oh, say! I was over to the tailor's
to-day. I'm getting a new suit. Miss Fletcher
took me.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
That so?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's a blue search, with a hair-bone strip. He
took my measures all over. Like I was a fighter.
I'm thirty-eight inches around my chest, and
thirty-three around my stomach, and—I forget
my thigh. Anyway, he's got it all wrote down.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I must get a copy.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
If they like &quot;June Moon&quot; I'm going to have an
evening dinner coat made, with a Tuxedo. I been
wearing an old suit of Paul's, but it's too big.
Miss Fletcher says it would hold two like me.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
There couldn't be two.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
She was just joking.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I see.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
They've given me a wonderful time, all right.
They've introduced me to all the big stars! Gil
Boag, and Earl Carroll, and Texas Guinan! I
met Texas Guinan!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
She's kind of hard to meet, isn't she?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No. She's one of the friendliest women I ever
seen. When the girls told her who I was she said
it was a big night in her life—she said she'd always
wanted to meet a lyric writer. I wonder
what my friends in Schenectady would say if they
knew I sat around and talked to Texas Guinan!
I didn't know nothing when I lived there. Even
the first few weeks I was in New York, I was kind
of a sap.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
That sounds incredible.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I went sightseeing to places like the Aquarium,
and Grant's Tomb, and the Central Park animal
zoo, and thought I was having a great time. A
little friend of mine, she took me around places
she'd been to and I thought I was seeing New
York because I didn't know no better. She was
from a small town, too—she didn't know no better
either. Only now I've learned.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
What's become of her? Did she go home?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, she lives here. She works for a dentist.
I must call her up some time and see how she's
getting along. (A WINDOW CLEANER enters. He
looks a great deal like a window cleaner.) What
are you going to do?
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
Wash the windows.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But we're going to try a song here. Can't you
go somewheres else first?
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
First! I'm pretty near through for the day.
Besides, they're singing songs all over the building.
That don't bother me.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But we're going to sing a new one for Mr.
Hart.
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
How much does a man get for writing songs?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It depends on the song.
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
Say a big hit like &quot;Nearer My God To Thee&quot;?
</p>
<p>
(Just before MAXIE can brain him, PAUL comes
on.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Are you ready?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yah. (To MAXIE.) Let's do the song now.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Plenty of time.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I wish Hart would come, so I can get my advance
royalty check. Say, where will I get it
cashed? At the American Express Company?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Or the 59th Street Bridge.
</p>
<p>
(BENNY Fox bounds on. He's a song-writer of
the dangerous type.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Where's Hart?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
He ain't back yet.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(buttonholing MAXIE)<br />
I've got it this time! &quot;Hello, Tokio!&quot; How's
that for a title? They wanted a novelty number!
I guess I've give it to them!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I and Paul have got a hit!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yeah!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We think so, anyway.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(paying no attention to them)<br />
In the verse I've got a fella here in New York
that sees a pitcher of a Japanese princess and he's
nuts over her, but he can't afford a trip to Japan
just on a chance. So he calls her up-get it?
&quot;Hello, Tokio!&quot; Get this! Here's the refrain!
After he calls her up! (He plays and sings it, the
chorus being as follows):
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Hello, hello, Tokio!  </p>
<p>Girlie, you'll excuse it, please,  </p>
<p>If I no spik Japanese.  </p>
<p>This little call will leave me broke-o,  </p>
<p>But I simply had to say, 'I love you so.'  </p>
<p>Believe me, dearie, it's no joke-o;  </p>
<p>I'd gladly fly through fire and smoke-o'  </p>
<p>To share with you the marriage yok-o,  </p>
<p>Fairest flower of Tokio-oki-okio!&quot;</p>
<p></p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(But that isn't all. PAUL and FRED start 
expectantly toward the piano as the finish approaches,
but BENNY double-crosses them by
plunging quickly into a second chorus. This
time the WINDOW CLEANER, who has been entranced
by the whole thing, starts to beat time
with his sponge. He holds the sponge directly over
BENNY's head, and the resulting drips do not help
the second chorus any. By way of good measure,
he then chimes in on the finish, winding up with
one &quot;Okio&quot; left over after BENNY is through playing.
BENNY glares at him, and he turns back to
his window-washing.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(to MAXIE, when it's all over)<br />
Well, what do you think?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
It would sound better in Japanese.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
How about it, Paul?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
It's a pretty good number.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
It's a great number! Here's another one—just
come to me last night!
</p>
<p>
(He starts to play a refrain—a melody so familiar
that MAXIE calmly pushes him off the
bench and finishes it himself.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(a bit discouraged)<br />
Oh, you're too wise! (He goes.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(starting to play)<br />
All right, boys!
</p>
<p>
(The WINDOW CLEANER decides that he doesn't
want to hear this one. He opens the window, and
a good gale of wind blows most of the papers off
the piano.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Hey!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What are you trying to do?
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
I'm sorry. I didn't realize it was blowing so
hard. I'm glad I ain't out in a boat.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I wish you'd been on the Hesperus. (The WINDOW
CLEANER climbs out the window, and presently
disappears from view. MAXIE and the boys
plunge into &quot;June Moon,&quot; with FRED leading the
singing.)
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Summer winds are sighing in the trees, my dear;  </p>
<p>I am sure I know what makes them sigh:  </p>
<p>They are sad on moonlight nights like these, my dear;  </p>
<p>They are lonely for you, same as I.  </p>
<p>Sweetheart, how can you resist their plea,  </p>
<p>And the moon you used to share with me?</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p>&gt; June Moon, shining above,  </p>
<p>&gt; Will my true love come soon?  </p>
<p>&gt; June Moon, I am so blue;  </p>
<p>&gt; I know that you long for her, too.  </p>
<p>&gt; Sweet night-bird, winging aloft,  </p>
<p>&gt; Singing a soft love tune,  </p>
<p>&gt; Tell her to come to me here,  </p>
<p>&gt; To me and her dear June Moon.&quot;  </p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(As the song finishes, EDNA, the girl of the prologue,
quietly enters. MAXIE is the first to see
her.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You got an audience.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(none too pleased)<br />
Hello there, girlie!
</p>
<p>
EDNA (ill at ease)<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I wasn't expecting to see you. Ah—this is—
you met Mr. Sears. This is Miss Baker, everybody.
And this is Mr. Schwartz.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
How do you do, Miss Baker?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Hello. They told me to come in, but I'm afraid
you're busy.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Not a bit.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We were just polishing off our number. &quot;June
Moon.&quot;
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You've finished it, haven't you? It's beautiful.
</p>
<p>
PAUL (eagerly)<br />
Did you like the melody?
</p>
<p>
(GOLDIE enters; she has work to do at the
music shelves.)
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I loved it. And I love Fred's words. I think
everybody will.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Are you fond of music?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I love it.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
We'll send you some good stuff. Goldie! Get
Miss Baker's address before she leaves—we'll send
her some music.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
(visions of more work)<br />
Oh, yeah? (She goes.)
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(an embarrassed pause)<br />
I don't want to interrupt. Maybe I'd better be
going.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
No, no! We'll go. You stay right here!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But look, if Mr. Hart comes in—
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
We'll be in Benny's room. Good-by, Miss
Baker.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Good-by, Mr.—
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Schwartz. Maxie Schwartz. It's a Greek name.
</p>
<p>
(PAUL and MAXIE go. FRED and EDNA are
alone.)
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'm fine. Are you?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
We're all alone, Fred.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Huh?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Nobody's looking.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Oh! (He kisses her—a kiss that would easily
get by the censors.)
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
My, it seems nice again!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You bet!
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Fred, what's been the matter?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Nothing. I just been busy, that's all. I was
going to call you as soon as I wasn't busy.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I thought maybe you were sick or something.
I tried to call you up two mornings—I mean, at
your hotel—and they said you couldn't be waked
up before one o'clock, I think it was.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
That's only because I been up late the night
before, working. We got the song all finished.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It's beautiful! I had no idea it would turn out
so beautiful! It's beautiful!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We're going to sing it for Mr. Hart as soon
as he gets here.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It's a beautiful song. Up to now I felt it was
sort of ours together. I mean, the way it started
when we were on the train, and then you telling
me how it was getting along every day, and now
all of a sudden it's finished and I haven't got anything
to do with it any more.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes, you have. When it's published I'll make
them put your name on the cover—&quot;Dictated to
Miss Edna Baker.&quot;
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh, Fred, I'd love that! But I'd love something
else better.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What's that?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It's been two Sundays since we went anywhere
together. Remember the day we took our lunch,
and went over on the Palisades all day, and then
in the evening we went to the amusement park
and went on all the rides! We didn't get home till
pretty near twelve o'clock! And then we were
going again the next Sunday, only—we didn't.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But that's because I've been working. I told
you.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You don't have to work days and nights both.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(trying to wriggle out)<br />
I have to work when Paul feels like it. Music
writers don't keep no hours—they work when
they're inspired. And it ain't just writing the
songs that takes time. You have to go around
places, and keep in contract with the other boys,
so you get new notions. You got to keep getting
new notions in this game.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
What kind of places do you have to go to?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You know—places where they have music.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You mean—night clubs?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Some of them.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Just you and Mr. Sears?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, generally we all go together.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Who else?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Paul's wife. Lucille, her name is.
</p>
<p>
(BENNY starts to come on; stops as he sees
them.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(So graciously, as though the interruption
had been the other way around)<br />
That's all right. (Withdraws.)
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Doesn't anybody else go along, to sort of even
up the party?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(a second's hesitation; then he blurts it out)<br />
Nobody you know! I hardly know her myself.
She just comes along because she's Lucille's sister
and lives there.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You can't leave her home by herself. She's
timid.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Does she know about—me, Fred?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Huh?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Didn't you ever tell her about—me?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, you see, we just—it's only business, and
there hasn't nothing like that come up.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
What's she like, Fred?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I don't know. She—
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(hard at work)<br />
A girl like she has probably got lots of beautiful
clothes. She probably makes little me look
like nothing.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
That part don't matter. It wouldn't make no
difference to me if she had all the clothes in the
world. Or if she was bare, either.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Is she—very pretty?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yah, she—I hardly ever noticed if she was
pretty or not.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
What's her name?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Miss Fletcher.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I mean her first name.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I think they call her Eileen.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
That's a beautiful name. It's a lot nicer than
mine, don't you think?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's just a different name.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Is she blonde or brunette?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Both—I mean she's red-headed. That is, I
never paid much attention.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
How old is she?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I don't know.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Older than I am?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
A little bit, I guess. I guess she must be. She's
been on the stage.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(putting across a little mild horror)<br />
Honestly, Fred?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yah, but don't think—I mean, that don't mean
anything.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh, Fred, you want to be careful! Because
you take a woman like she, that's close to forty
or more—
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
She ain't forty.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(conceding two years)<br />
Well, thirty-eight. And she sees a young boy
who almost any woman would be proud to win
your affection, and there isn't anything she might
not stoop to, to entangle you.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
There won't no woman untangle me.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You can't tell, Fred—the most terrible things
can happen. There was a near friend of mine, a
man, and he was acquainted with a count, an international
count, and he came here to New York
and one night they went on a wild party and he
fell in love with a beautiful chorus girl from the
Metropolitan Opera Company—I forgot the name
of the opera. And he bought her pearls and diamonds,
and in less than a week's time he found
out they was both married. That's just what
could happen to you, dear.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Who found out who was married?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Both of them were married-the count and the
girl.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
He must have been a fine count, not to know
he was married.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Fred, doesn't it cost an awful lot of money
when you go around to all these places—or do
they take you?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, that part's going to be all right, because
as soon as they take our song I'll get what they
call an advance royalties. And of course after
it's a big hit I'll have plenty of money.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I see.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Only the first thing I'm going to do—I mean,
when I get my advance royalties—I'm going to
pay you back that little loan.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
That doesn't matter, Fred.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But I don't like owing money to a girl. Especially
a girl.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
But it's all right when two people are like you
and I. That makes it all right. I'd give you
everything I've got, only I'm afraid I'm not going
to have very much from now on.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What do you mean?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I wasn't going to tell you, but I haven't got my
position any more. I mean, with Doctor.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You mean you quit?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
He discharged me.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What for?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I made a mistake. I gave Mr. Mowrey's appointment
to Mr. Treadwell, and Doctor scraped
Mr. Treadwell's bones instead of Mr. Mowrey's.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'm terrible sorry, Eddie. Gosh, I wish there
was something I could do about it.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(snapping him up)<br />
There is, Fred, if you felt like doing it.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Are you going to be busy—after they hear the
song?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Well, I'm afraid so—to-night. I got to work
with Paul.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Well, then, before that. After Mr. Hart hears
it. Oh, Fred, couldn't I stay and hear it too?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Oh, no, Eddie. When Mr. Hart's hearing a
new number he can't have nobody around. He's
got to consecrate.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'll tell you what. You can wait in the reception
room or somewheres, and the minute he's
heard it I'll come and tell
what he says.
you
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh, Fred, that's grand! Then can we go somewhere
together for a little while? Have a soda or
something?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yah, I guess so.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh, Fred, I'm so glad! You do care a little,
then? I mean, you do care whether you—see me?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Of course I do. Sure. Certainly.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh, Fred! (She presents herself impulsively.
He kisses her.) Everything seems all right again
now. I don't care about losing my position any
more.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yah, but— (MR. HART finally arrives. A big
man, and important-looking. He crosses the room
enroute to his own office.) Oh, Mr. Hart! Mr.
Hart!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We've been waiting for you! We're all ready!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Ready with what?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
The new number. We'll go through it for you
if you'll just wait a minute.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
What number?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
&quot;June Moon.&quot; The number I wrote with Paul
Sears.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Oh! (Starts away.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'll get he and Maxie and we'll run it through
for you.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
That's very thoughtful. (But he goes.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes, sir. Paul! Maxie! All right, Eddie, you
go in there and as soon as the song's over I'll
come and tell you.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
All right, dear.
</p>
<p>
PAUL (coming in)<br />
Did Hart get back?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yah! He went in there! I told him we was
ready! Where's Maxie?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
He's coming! (And so he does.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Well! Are we all set?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
He's here, but he went in there! He came in,
and I talked to him, and he went out!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What do you think we better do?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
How about throwing a cordon around the
building? (He goes into HART's office.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Maxie'll bring him.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(trying his voice)<br />
&quot;June Moon&quot;—(Suddenly sees EDNA again.)
All right, Eddie, we're going to sing it now.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
All right, dear. I can wait happy now. (She
goes.)
</p>
<p>
(The WINDOW CLEANER climbs through the
window again.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Hey! You can't work here now!
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
(MAXIE comes back, bringing HART.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Here we are!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
All right—let's have it. What's the name of
this song? (BENNY bounds on, following HART.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Are you ready, Boss?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
For &quot;Tokio!&quot;
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Listen, Joe—these boys have been waiting since
two o'clock.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
All right, all right. Let's have it. What's the
name of it?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
&quot;June Moon.&quot;
</p>
<p>
BENNY (bitingly)<br />
Great idea!
</p>
<p>
(GOLDIE enters.)
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Pardon me, Mr. Hart. Mr. Wayburn's on the
wire.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Can't talk to him now. Go ahead, boys! What's
this song called?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
He wants to know if he can use the &quot;Java&quot;
number to-night. It's a benefit.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Who for? Him?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
I think he said the Widows of Long Island
Commuters.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Oh, sure. Tell him he can have it if he pays
for it.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Yes, sir! (Goes.)
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
That's a great number, &quot;Java.&quot; Great number.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Yes, sir.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(very much the big man)<br />
Do you boys want a sure-fire idea?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yes.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Yes.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes, sir.
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
(just one of the boys)<br />
Yeah!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Write a war song. Just have it ready—in case.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Is there going to be a war?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(taking them all in)<br />
I won't say yes and I won't say no. But in
this little swing around the West I had a chance
to sort of feel out the common people. (Grows
very confidential.) I'll tell you something. I'm
not a bit comfortable about the Mexican situation.
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
Me neither.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
It's a dangerous situation. I don't like it. I
don't like it a bit. (A long, low whistle from
BENNY.) Wouldn't surprise me at all if something
happened and happened soon. And when it
does, the first fellow in the field is going to clean
up. You boys want to watch the papers—be
ready for an emergency. Not only war, but these
aeroplane flights all over the place—television—
all the big inventions. (A man named BRAINARD
comes in—just a stranger.) What is it?
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
Have you seen a couple of men?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
Have you seen a couple of men? There's two of
them.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
What men?
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
From our office. One of them's had his appendix
out.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
What office? Where are you from?
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
Devlin, Devlin, Stewart and Devlin.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
How did Stewart crash in? Marry one of the
Devlin girls?
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
No. Only one of the Devlins has got a daughter.
She's Mrs. Carl Bishop, the architect.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
For God's sake! Get out of here, will you?
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
But I got to find them.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Well, they're not here. What would they be
doing here?
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
This is their day in this building.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
We're busy now. Come in to-morrow.
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
They won't be here to-morrow.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Listen to me; I don't know who you are or
where you're from—
</p>
<p>
(GOLDIE enters.)
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Beg pardon, Mr. Hart!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Now what?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
George Gershwin's out there.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
George Gershwin!
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Yes, sir.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
My God! (He hurries out.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Who is it?
</p>
<p>
WINDOW CLEANER<br />
George Gershwin. (He also hurries out.)
</p>
<p>
BRAINARD<br />
Yeah! (BRAINARD, after a second's hesitation,
also goes, hurrying a little. BENNY is next to go.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL (to FRED)<br />
Did you ever see him?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
He stole my rhapsody. (He and FRED go.)
</p>
<p>
(MAXIE runs a careless scale; gets up from the
piano.)
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Aren't you going out to see him?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Make him come to me. (Goes off the other
way.)
</p>
<p>
(EILEEN and LUCILLE come on—EILEEN leads
the way and seems thoroughly at home.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Where's everybody?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Hello, Goldie.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Good afternoon, Mrs. Sears.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (to GOLDIE)<br />
I see you've moved the piano.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE (with vast impertinence)<br />
Not me! (She goes; the women are alone.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Well, here we are! Why don't you go in and
say hello to Hart?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I'd rather run into him accidentally. It looks
better.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You're not as sure of him as you let on.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Yes, I am! Why shouldn't I be?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Well, the way he went away, in the first place.
And he didn't exactly keep the wires hot while he
was gone.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He wrote to me, every place he went.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yah, if you call picture post-cards writing.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He was busy most of the time. It was a business trip.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
He certainly sent you a beautiful view of the
Detroit Athletic Club. (EILEEN glares at her.)
And that new water-works in Cleveland. A man
that didn't care about you would have sent a picture
of the <em>old</em> water-works. He's kind of a Latin
type. Hot-blooded.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You can say all you want to. Just the same,
when he finds I've been going out with Stevens
he's going to be insanely jealous. You watch him.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Well, maybe. But he didn't even wire you for
a date to-night. It's the first time he hasn't done
that.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He's taking it for granted. That's even better.
</p>
<p>
(Any prospective reply is cut short by the return
of BENNY.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Hello, there!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Hello!
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
George Gershwin's outside.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yeah?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Don't you want to meet him?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
It's too late now.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
No—he's still there.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yah, but I'm not.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
I was telling him about my new number—
&quot;Hello, Tokio!&quot; He said it was a great idea.
But I forgot—you ain't heard it. (He dashes
for the piano.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
It's all right. I'll take Gershwin's word.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
He said it would make the nuckelus of a great
musical show. It's about a fella that falls in love
with a pitcher of a Japanese princess, and he calls
her up on the long distance phone.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Is she sitting home?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Yah. Why?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I just wondered if things were the same over
there.
</p>
<p>
BENNY (thinking hard)<br />
Of course in a musical show he and she have got
to get together. (Gets a sudden idea; a snap of
the fingers.) I got it—he flies there! That's what
he does—he flies there! (Now working as if in a
trance.) And he arrives in cherry blossom time!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Is that a record?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
What a part for Lindbergh, if he could sing!
(He goes.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
We'd better be moving. We're kind of exposed
here.
</p>
<p>
(PAUL and FRED return.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Hello, there! Gee, I'm glad to see you!
</p>
<p>
PAUL (not so glad)<br />
Oh, hello!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Hello!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You two can't stay here. We're going to do
the song.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Mr. Hart ain't heard the song yet. Gee, I hope
he likes it.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He'll like it all right. Lucille and I have
brought you luck.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yah. I'm a born rabbit's foot.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
We don't need luck, with this number.
</p>
<p>
FRED (to EILEEN)<br />
If they take it we'll have some celebration to-night!
Won't we!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
We can decide that later. I don't know—I
may not want to go out to-night.
</p>
<p>
(MR. HART comes back. Apparently Gershwin
didn't stay long.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Here we are!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Oh, Mr. Hart!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(a little flustered; he had not counted on
running into EILEEN this way)<br />
Well! I didn't know we had visitors. Hello,
Lucille.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
(HART turns slowly to EILEEN.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(coming to the rescue)<br />
This is Miss Fletcher, Mr. Hart. Miss Fletcher's
Paul's sister-in-law.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Yes. I've already met Miss Fletcher.
</p>
<p>
FRED (still helping)<br />
Mr. Hart's been off on a trip.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
That's very interesting.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
He's been in all the big cities. Chicago, and
Cincinnati, and Cleveland—
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I understand Cleveland's got a new water-works.
</p>
<p>
(HART looks at her, dumbly.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Are you ready for our song now, Mr. Hart? I
mean &quot;June Moon&quot;?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
In a minute. I've a little work to do.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (quickly)<br />
Fred's been trying very hard to learn the business.
</p>
<p>
HART (arrested)<br />
Yes?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I guess we've been pretty nearly every place,
haven't we, hearing the new songs?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You bet! Miss Fletcher's taken me every place.
I think I know now what people want, all right.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(looking at FRED with new interest)<br />
Oh! So you are a friend of Miss Fletcher's?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We ain't been acquainted long, but—well, we're
pretty good friends. (To EILEEN) Aren't we?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Yah!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(has a thought)<br />
Suppose you boys come into my office and we'll
run this song over.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You mean right away!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Yes, of course.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
That's fine. (Rushing to the piano.) Where's
the lead sheet and the lyrics?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Here they are!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Shall we go right in?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Yes, of course.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But where's Maxie? We got to have Maxie.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
I'll send for him. Now then, who wrote this
song?
</p>
<p>
FRED and PAUL<br />
(together, as they go through the door)
</p>
<p>
I did!
</p>
<p>
(The women are once more alone.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Did you see that? He's insanely jealous.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Well, if that's jealousy I'll take a plain lemonade.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You don't know him the way I do! He's burning up!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
He controlled it pretty well. He didn't say
anything about a date to-night.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
How could he, with Stevens here?
</p>
<p>
(MAXIE crosses the stage, enroute to HART's
office.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Well, it won't be long now. He's going to hear
it at last.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yah. We're waiting for the verdict.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
It's Stevens' first offense. They'll acquit him
on the grounds of insanity. (He is gone.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You know, if they buy that limerick, Stevens'll
be getting up a party for to-night. He was talking
about it already.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I know.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What are you going to do about him, anyhow?
He's going to be kind of a nuisance with Hart
back.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I can handle him. He's so far gone you can tell
him anything.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
We certainly do attract song-writers, we
Fletcher girls. It's a curse.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He's not a bad kid. I kind of like him. And he
might make a lot of money in this game. Plenty
of others have done it.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (slowly)<br />
I wonder if that damned song is any good. All
of Paul's stuff sounds just alike to me.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Maybe Stevens' lyrics are just silly enough to
get over. I've got kind of a hunch that they are.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Even if they buy it it won't mean anything to
us. Paul's so far ahead of his royalties they'll
never catch up. He could write &quot;Madame Butterfly&quot;
and it wouldn't even get me a new girdle.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Anyway, I've got Stevens broken in right, whoever
gets him. You've got to give me credit for
changing some of his ideas. I imagine every week
was Thrift Week in Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
It's Thrift Year for me. Year after year. (She
drops into a chair.) And I'm getting pretty sick
of it.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why don't you do something?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Well, maybe I am.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You are? What?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(shakes her head)<br />
That's all right.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Don't be a fool! What's happened?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Nothing exactly yet.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Well, what's going to happen?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I don't know. Nothing.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (pleading)<br />
Will you tell me?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(makes up her mind)<br />
Remember—Ed Knowlton?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Yes. What about him?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I ran into him Friday, on Madison Avenue.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why didn't you tell me?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Because I knew what you'd say and I wanted to
think it out for myself.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
What's it all about? What's he doing here?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
He's left Chicago for good. They're living on
East Fifty-seventh—he and his wife and the two
kids.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Well?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
He still likes me, and I like him.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Has he got any money?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
He makes a lot, but he spends it.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
If he likes you that's not a fatal drawback.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
He likes me all right.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Can he get rid of her?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(shakes her head)<br />
No, it's her uncle or something owns the business.
But he saw I wasn't happy, and—well, we
had a couple of drinks and talked. He kept saying
I ought to have nice things,—and that he was
willing to give them to me.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Don't tell me you aren't going to do it?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I'm kind of afraid. Suppose Paul gets inquisitive?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Paul! He doesn't know silk from asbestos. To
hell with him anyway! It's time you had some
luck!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I don't know what to do. You and I look at
things different. But Ed's so nice. The things he
says they make me feel young again. And it's
such a relief to just talk to a man that hates
music!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Listen, if you don't do this—
</p>
<p>
(FRED runs on, all excitement.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
They're going to take it! They've took it!
They're crazy about it!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Well, that's fine! I knew they'd like it!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's my first song! My first one to be published!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
That's wonderful.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(wildly unenthusiastic)<br />
It's quite thrilling.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
They're making me out a check for two hundred
and fifty dollars! That's just what they
call an advance royalties!
</p>
<p>
(PAUL returns.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
They took it all right!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
So Fred said.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Yes!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You should have heard what Hart said about
the melody.
</p>
<p>
FRED (to EILEEN)<br />
Aren't you glad about the song? Aren't you
excited?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(her mind beyond the door)<br />
I should say so.
</p>
<p>
(HART comes in.)
</p>
<p>
HART (expansively)<br />
Well, what do you think of this young man?
Making good in his first attempt!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
It's wonderful!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yes, indeed.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
And Paul, too. He's written a nice little melody.
Did you get your check, Stevens?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, sir. Not yet.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Goldie'll bring it to you.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(crossing to his own office)<br />
Well, thought you people would be on your
way by this time.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
We are waiting for Fred's check!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I'll bet you are! (He's gone.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Mr. Hart! We were all planning on going some
place to-night, to celebrate the success of the
song. We'd love to have you come along with us,
if you can.
</p>
<p>
(A moment of embarrassment. EILEEN just
waits.)
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Well, now, I'd like to do that, but I'm very
sorry. (HART starts talking to FRED, but shifts
his gaze to EILEEN.) You see, I just got back
from this trip, and I'm tied up with Mr. Goebel
to-night.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Oh, that's too bad.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(with more meaning)<br />
Yes, it is.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
I'm sure you'll have a wonderful time. Can't
tell you how much I'd like to be along. But of
course, business comes first.
</p>
<p>
(A very beautiful young lady enters. Her name
is MISS RIXEY.)
</p>
<p>
MISS RIXEY<br />
Hello, Joe. Am I late?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(after clearing his throat)<br />
Miss Rixey, isn't it?
</p>
<p>
MISS RIXEY<br />
(puzzled at this reception)<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Ah—they told me you were coming.
</p>
<p>
MISS RIXEY<br />
(coming right to him)<br />
You knew damn well I was coming!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(still trying to cover up)<br />
Did you bring those orchestrations?
</p>
<p>
MISS RIXEY<br />
(holding up a bundle which obviously contains
two bottles of liquor)<br />
You mean this?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(sunk by this time; grabs her by arm and
rushes her into his office)<br />
Ah—just step into my office and we'll talk
business.
</p>
<p>
MISS RIXEY<br />
Listen, Joe, that driver of yours is so damn
dumb—
</p>
<p>
HART (loudly)<br />
Yes, we publish that! Right this way!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(airily, when they are gone)<br />
Well, well, well!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's too bad he can't go, but the four of us can
have a good time.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (recklessly)<br />
Have a good time! You bet we can! We're going
to have the best time any crowd ever had!
Aren't we, Freddy boy? (Throws her arms
around him and kisses him.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We sure are, girlie!
</p>
<p>
(GOLDIE comes on.)
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Here's your check, Mr. Stevens.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Great!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Hooray! Here's the check! (She takes it.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Just in time!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Two hundred and fifty dollars! You've just
got to give me a great big kiss!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Oh, you two!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Do you love me?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You bet I do!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Where'll we go for dinner?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I want a good steak.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
How about the Park Casino?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Oh, fine! I've never been there! I hear it's marvellous!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
They've got the most wonderful band! You'll
love it, Freddie boy!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I will if you're along!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I'm going to be, don't you worry about that!
Wherever you are, that's where I'm going to be!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
That suits me all right!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Come on, everybody!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Don't forget we got to cash the check.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(waving the check)<br />
I should say not! We're not going to forget
that, are we, Freddie boy?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You bet we aren't!
</p>
<p>
(They are gone; GOLDIE alone is left. She
picks out some songs from the shelves. EDNA, the
girl he left behind him, peeps in, then enters.)
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Do you know if they've heard Mr. Stevens's
song yet? I mean &quot;June Moon&quot;?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
(pretty hard-boiled)<br />
Yah. They did.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(starting brightly forward)<br />
Was it all right? Did they like it?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
(surveying her)<br />
They took it.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(in pleased excitement)<br />
Really! Where are they? Still in there?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Not any more. They've all gone.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
They went out just a couple of minutes ago.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Mr.—Stevens, too?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Yah. With Mr. Sears and the two girls.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh!... Thank you very much.
</p>
<p>
(GOLDIE takes a moment to look her up and
down, then goes. EDNA stands stock still for a
moment, stunned. The door opens and the WINDOW
CLEANER returns, sponge still in hand. He
looks at EDNA a bit curiously; the scrutiny is
more than she can stand. All she can do is rush
out.)
</p>
<p>
(The room belongs to the WINDOW CLEANER,
and maybe he doesn't realize it. He scampers
over to the piano and hits a few tentative notes.
Resigning himself to a musical career, he drops
his sponge on the window sill and starts picking
out the notes of &quot;Hello, Tokio!&quot; Encouraged by
his success with the first phrase, he starts again,
this time singing it. Then he takes a long breath
and starts again, louder this time. He is plunging
recklessly into it, and oblivious of his surroundings,
when MAXIE comes in behind him.
MAXIE stands perfectly still for a second, taking
in the situation. Then he makes up his mind.
Turn about, he decides, is fair play. He picks up
the sponge and starts feverishly washing the window.)
</p>
<p>
THE CURTAIN FALLS<br />
</p>
<h2>Act III</h2>
<p>
The scene is still at Goebel's—the time about
a month later. GOLDIE comes on and goes to the
music racks. While she is searching for songs,
BENNY enters. Except that BENNY never just
enters—he shoots on.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Where's Hart?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
He's out somewhere.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Did you tell him I wanted to see him?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Yes, but he was on his way out.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
What did he say?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Nothing. He just hurried.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
I've got to see him. I've got a number that will
knock his eye out.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Like &quot;Tokio?&quot;
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Don't kid me about &quot;Tokio.&quot; If ever a man
got a crooked deal! Listen—
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
I've heard it.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
You ain't heard it all because I didn't know it
myself till last night. Harry Ruby told me at the
Friars. It seems that the night I played it there,
there was a fella named Stein hanging around.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE (incredulous)<br />
At the Friars?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Well, he hears my number, and he tells these
other fellas, and they turn out their damn &quot;Hello,
Shanghai!&quot; and beat me to it. It's increditable,
but that's what happened. And on top of that
Maxie says their number is better than mine because
Shanghai's further away than Tokio. I'll
kill the two of them the first time I get them alone
together, I don't care if they got a thousand
friends with them. And that ain't all. They stole
my song and I'm going to sue them for perjury.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
I think you'll get it.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
And it wasn't only a song they stole—it was a
whole production. A musical comedy. That's
where the big money is. And that's what I'm going
to get into. I'll tell you something. (Confidentially.)
I'm not going to be with Goebel's much
longer.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
I heard that.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Who from?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Mr. Goebel.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
You couldn't—he doesn't know it yet.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Oh!
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
I'm quitting and they can see how they like
that. They can get along with Stevens and his
brilliant ideas. &quot;June Moon!&quot; The lucky saphead!
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
It was on at five different stations last night.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
The oldest idea in the world! And I write a
great novelty number and it's stole off me!
</p>
<p>
(PAUL arrives.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL (to GOLDIE)<br />
Have you seen Stevens?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Want to hear a great song?
</p>
<p>
PAUL (still to GOLDIE)<br />
Have you?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
He hasn't come in.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Get this, Paul! Tell me if you don't think it'll
slaughter them! (BENNY hits one chord; HART
enters.) Hello, Boss! You're just in time!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(a wave of the hand that takes care of
BENNY for the moment)<br />
Where's Stevens? Is he in yet?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I'm waiting for him myself.
</p>
<p>
HART (to GOLDIE)<br />
Call his hotel. See if he's there.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
I did a while ago.
He was out.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
See if they know where to get a hold of him.
</p>
<p>
(GOLDIE goes. She loves her work, this girl.)
How are you coming with the new numbers?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(uncomfortably)<br />
Pretty good, only Fred don't seem to want to
work lately. He was going to meet me here at
eleven.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
He ought to be getting busy. He's not going
to work on his honeymoon.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
No, sir.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
When he comes in, tell him I'd like to see him.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yes, sir. (He goes out.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(stopping HART before he can escape)<br />
Listen, Mr. Hart! It won't take me two minutes
to show you this number. It's sure to hit
you.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Anything like &quot;Tokio&quot;?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
I had a tough break on that, Mr. Hart—that
&quot;Hello, Shanghai.&quot; Why, do you know what?
There ain't even a telephone between New York
and Shanghai!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Well, we'll have one put in. (MAXIE comes on.)
Oh, Maxie, I was just going to send for you.
There's a young fellow outside who has written
a song.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Who is it?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
That's just the point. Somebody my sister-in-law
sent, so do whatever you can for him. He's
only sixteen years old.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
And still grinding them out?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
It's probably one of those things, but <em>you</em> know—you
never can tell. Anything can happen, after &quot;June Moon.&quot;
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
As long as you've brought that up, would you
mind answering me a riddle?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
What is it?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Did you have any idea that was going to be a
hit? Honestly, now?
</p>
<p>
HART (hesitantly)<br />
Well, I'll tell
you, Maxie—
</p>
<p>
MAXIE (starts to leave)<br />
That's all I wanted to know.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Do whatever you can for the lad, Maxie. He
came all the way from Plainfield.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
He'll get home safe. (He goes.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(still trying)<br />
Listen, Mr. Hart, won't you hear this?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Hear what?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
This number. The title is &quot;Give Our Child A
Name.&quot; It'll make &quot;June Moon&quot; sound like a
dirge. It's a couple that give birth to a little one
in two-four tempo.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
It won't do you any good knocking Stevens's
number.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
I ain't knocking his lousy number, but get this,
Mr. Hart! (He jumps to the piano.)
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Should a father's carnal sins  </p>
<p>Blight the life of babykins?  </p>
<p>All I ask is give our child a—&quot;</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(His hands descend on the keyboard in an annoyed
discord as FRED and EILEEN enter.)
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Well! Here's the groom at last!
</p>
<p>
(BENNY goes, banging the door behind him.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You can blame it on me. I've been making him
get some new clothes.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Well, you two are certainly to be congratulated.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Thanks.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Much obliged.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
But don't forget your work. When do you sail?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Saturday.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We sail Saturday.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
(having his bit of fun)<br />
I certainly envy you. I wish I could go along.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
There's no chance, I suppose?
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Not at this time of year. (Visibly enjoying the
situation.) If you could postpone it a month—
</p>
<p>
FRED (brightening)<br />
Yah, that might be a good idea!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Don't be silly!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I forgot. Eileen wants to be on the Riveeria
in the season.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
I see. Well, I hope they don't take you at
Monte Carlo.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
If they don't take us there we can go somewheres else.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Anyhow, be sure to get your work done. (He
starts to go.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Oh, Mr. Hart!
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Yes?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Fred wants to speak to you about something
else.
</p>
<p>
FRED (quickly)<br />
No, I don't.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But you do, dear.
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
I'll ask you later.
Is anything the matter?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, no! It wasn't—I just—
</p>
<p>
HART<br />
Well, I'll be in my office, if you want me. (He
leaves.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why didn't you ask him when you had a
chance?
</p>
<p>
FRED (weakly)<br />
They've advanced me so much already.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
But sweetheart, you promised me. You said
you'd ask him to-day.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I will after while. I got to find Paul now—I
got to go to work.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Oh, don't go to work yet. You never have any
time for me. You don't realize I want to be loved
once in a while.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I held your hand in the taxi.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Just think! Only three more days till we belong
to each other. Isn't it marvellous!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's four, ain't it?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Four till we sail. Only three till we get married.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I wished it wasn't quite so soon.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I mean, on account of those two numbers.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Don't forget—you're to ask him for a thousand
dollars advance on each of them.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But that's too much! I've borrowed thirty-five
hundred dollars off them already on &quot;June Moon&quot;—maybe
more than my royalties will amount to altogether.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Don't be ridiculous! That number will still be
selling when you're dead.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I won't care so much then.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Your children will. (FRED is embarrassed.)
Don't you want children, dear?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I don't get along with them very good.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You would with your own.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No. I figure I'd get along better with other
people's, because they'd go home once in a while.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
We needn't think of that now. Let's just think
of you and me, all alone on that big boat.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We won't be alone. The fella said it would be
pretty near full.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
But we don't have to see anybody. A bride and
groom don't generally go around much—they're
supposed to be so awfully in love.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'll want to eat once in a while.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
They'll serve us in our cabin.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It'll be kind of close quarters. Maybe I could
go in the dining-room and order you a meal sent
up.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
And leave me all alone? I'd be scared to death.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It's just as dangerous in the dining-room as the
bedroom. If the ship sinks, pretty near all the
rooms will be under water.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Let's not think about such things. Just think
of the pleasant side. London and Paris—I'm glad
we're going to Paris first, so I can get some
clothes.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Clothes? What have you been buying?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
They're all right for the ship, dear, but not the
Riviera. Don't you want to be proud of me—the
way I look?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But if you're going to stay in your cabin all
the time you won't need nothing but a Mother
Hubbard.
</p>
<p>
(MAXIE comes back; EILEEN automatically
starts to go.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Well! All ready for the big trip?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Pretty near. The boat sails Saturday.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I don't know what you want to go to Europe
for.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (bristling)<br />
Why not?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Because he's never been there. A song-writer
never goes anywhere for the first time—they're
always going back to places. Back to Indiana—back,
back to Baltimore.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (annoyed)<br />
Fred, are you going to talk to Mr. Hart?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes, ma'am.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Well, this would be a good time. (She goes, in
about medium dudgeon.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'd like to be going back, back to Schenectady,
but Eileen's got her heart set on Europe.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I hear it's quite a place.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes, I guess so. I was kind of excited about it
at first, but now I don't know—I don't want to
go so bad. I'm kind of tired, I guess—the way
we been going it lately. I'm kind of behind on my
sleep.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE (appraisingly)<br />
But you've been having a lot of fun. All those
night clubs.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I did at first—dancing and everything—but
now my feet's so sore I have to take a bath every
day. You might as well take a whole bath as just
your feet. And they ache so I can't sleep in them.
Gosh, I'm so tired all the time. I don't have time
to sleep, anyway. We shop till the stores is closed,
and then we get dressed up for dinner and the
evening. If I don't get some rest soon I'll have
a nervous break-up. And everything costs SO
much. Eileen wants a taxi if she's only going in
the other room.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
This trip to Europe—that's going to be kind
of expensive, too, ain't it?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes. I always thought I'd save my money, if
I ever got any.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You picked out a thrifty girl, all right.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I kind of get thinking sometimes, maybe a man
like I that's just breaking in, maybe he shouldn't
get married so soon, especially a woman that's
got to have so many clothes. Sometimes I think
it would be better if I hadn't got engaged.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(feeling his way)<br />
I read of a case once, in Michigan, where a
man was engaged to a girl and didn't marry her.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I didn't read that. Have you got the clippings?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
No. But my memory's pretty good. For instance,
I remember a mighty nice little girl that
was here to see you one time. I even remember
her name—Miss Baker.
</p>
<p>
FRED (nervously)<br />
Maxie, you haven't seen her or anything, have
you?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(the picture of innocence)<br />
Me? No. Why?
</p>
<p>
FRED (uneasily)<br />
I guess I shouldn't be thinking of her at a time
like this—
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Are you?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I don't know. Sometimes I—
</p>
<p>
(GOLDIE enters, bound for those same old music
shelves. It is a welcome interruption so far as
FRED is concerned.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I got to find Paul. I got to do some work. (He
withdraws.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(looking after him)<br />
Just one of the Happiness boys—he and Pagliacco.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE (with her songs)<br />
Mother song and mother song—why don't they
ever write about their uncle?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE (thoughtfully)<br />
Suppose I told you I was thinking of doing
something about him?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Suppose I went even further and told you I'd
already done it?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
What are you talking about?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I'm talking about a little girl that came in here
to see Stevens about a month ago. The one you
sent the music to.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Oh!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
She's the one he ought to be marrying, instead
of this whatever-she-is.
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
(with monumental indifference)<br />
My God, what's the difference who marries a
lyric writer? (She goes.)
</p>
<p>
(MAXIE stands a moment, deep in thought. He
drifts to the piano—aimlessly, instinctively.
Drops onto the bench; his fingers slide over the
keys. But he is not thinking about his music.)
</p>
<p>
(And then LUCILLE enters. A new LUCILLE,
patently. She wears a gorgeous red dress, topped
off with a coat of the same material, trimmed in
white fur. But it's not only the clothes. She has
that note of assurance that only the perfectly
dressed woman can have. She comes into the room
slowly, confidently.)
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(as he looks her over)<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Where's everybody?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Paul's outside somewhere. I think he's working.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Has Eileen been here?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
She's around.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Thanks.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
All dressed up to-day.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Not especially.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You look like a bride yourself.
</p>
<p>
(LUCILLE gives a visible start; the situation is
saved by the entrance of EILEEN.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Hello! I thought I saw you!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Well, I've got to get busy, if you'll excuse me.
(He goes.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(observing the dress)<br />
Oh, say, it's a peach!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Do you like it?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You bet! (She lowers her voice.) Have you got
a date?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I think so. I'm to phone his office later on. (She
is not at ease.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(a look at her watch)<br />
What do you say we have lunch?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Wait a minute.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
What's the matter?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I don't want to go out there yet.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why not?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I don't feel like running into Paul.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Aren't you ever going to get over that? What
is there to be afraid of?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I don't know. I'm just nervous.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He'll never guess anything. He's blind and always
has been.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Thanks!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You know what I mean. All he thinks about's
his tunes. We've got a chance to be happy, you
and I—for a while, anyhow. Let's take it!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You're a funny one to figure out.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Taking up with Stevens this way. You always
lectured me about Paul—his being a song-writer.
And now you're going to go and do the same thing.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Stevens is different. He's a nice kid. Of course,
he's not exactly what you'd call—bright.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Bright? He's not even born yet.
</p>
<p>
(PAUL enters.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Oh, hello.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What's that—a new dress?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(a silly question)<br />
This?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(sensing a storm)<br />
I'll meet you outside, Lucille.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Wait a minute—I'll go with you.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
No, I want to talk to you.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (scared)<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(a look at EILEEN)<br />
Stay in here a minute.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What for?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I'll go on out. I want to talk to Fred. (She
escapes, and glad of the chance.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What's the matter?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(on the dress again)<br />
That is new, isn't it?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Don't you think it's about time?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
How much was it?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
It won't come due for a while. I may
of it myself.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
take care
I can take care of it, if it ain't too soon.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I've got to go on out. Eileen's waiting.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Hold on! (LUCILLE turns, not knowing what
to expect.) That's what I want to talk to you
about.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
About her and Fred.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (in vast relief)<br />
Oh!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
She's got him so he can't hardly work at all.
I don't know when we're going to finish the new
numbers.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Of course you can finish them.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
But taking him off on this trip! It's going to
cost him a million dollars. And just when we're
beginning to work good together!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You can write other numbers while he's gone.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
But that ain't the point. I mean—do you
think we ought to do it?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Do what?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Do you think they ought to go ahead and get
married? He's a hell of a nice guy—I've kind of
got to like him.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What of it? Eileen's a nice girl.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
But—you know what I mean. Isn't it kind of
a dirty trick—I mean, after the way Eileen—
(LUCILLE gives him a sharp look.) Well, Hart
and everything?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(in a low tone)<br />
You ought to have more sense.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Just the same, I don't feel right about it. And
the way she's throwing his money around—like it
was confetti. Spending every nickel she can get
on herself! Clothes, clothes—
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
You can't go to Europe in a life belt.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Do you know what she spent in one afternoon,
yesterday? Close to four hundred dollars. He
pretty near cried when he told me. And I don't
blame him. He's too nice a kid.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
She doesn't spend that every day.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
She shouldn't have spent it at all. You should
have had more sense than to let her.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(flaring a little)<br />
How could I stop her? I wasn't there!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yes, you were! You were with her all afternoon.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(quickly covering herself)<br />
Oh, yes. I thought you meant the day before.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
It was Sunday, the day before.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yah—I just mixed up, that's all.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Anyhow, something ought to be done about it.
She's got him in debt enough.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE (nervously)<br />
I'll talk to her about it.
(Starts out.) Don't
Don't say anything
you say anything to her.
about—I mean, what she spent yesterday afternoon.
I'll go and talk to her. (She gets away.)
</p>
<p>
(PAUL stands in thought for a moment; then
he starts to go. BENNY catches him in the act.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Can you listen to that number?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Can you hear that number now?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Aw—I got to work, Benny. (Goes.)
</p>
<p>
(GOLDIE immediately enters.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Where's Hart?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
Can't you think up a new question?
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Where is he?
</p>
<p>
GOLDIE<br />
He's out getting a permanent. (And she goes.)
</p>
<p>
(BENNY almost gives up; is about to leave. But
then there arrives the beautiful young woman
known as MISS RIXEY. She heads for HART'S
door.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(without much hope)<br />
Say, do you want to hear a new song?
</p>
<p>
MISS RIXEY<br />
Sure!
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(bowled over by this answer)<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
MISS RIXEY<br />
I said sure.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(darts to the piano and starts)
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Should a father's carnal sins  </p>
<p>Blight the life of babykins?  </p>
<p>    All I ask is give our child—&quot;</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(But MISS RIXEY has not waited. Something
about the rhythm has caught her ear, and she has
simply gone into her dance. It has expressed itself
in the form of a neat Off-to-Buffalo, right
through the door and into HART's office. And perhaps
further.)
</p>
<p>
(BENNY sits looking after her, stunned. As he
does so EDNA enters—a bit uncertainly, as is her
wont, but she enters.)
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
(willing to take anything)<br />
Hello, kid.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Want to see somebody?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'll be going.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Wait—you want to hear a great song? You
know who I am, don't you? I'm Benny Fox, the
hit-writer. I write words and music both. I'm
like Berlin, only more pathetic. Now I got a new
one. It's about a couple that have a baby without
benefit to a clergyman, and you can dance to
it. (He plays it.)
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Should a father's carnal sins</p>
<p>Blight the life of babykins?</p>
<p>All I ask is give our child a name—I mean a last name.</p>
<p>I don't ask to share your life,</p>
<p>Live with you as man and wife;</p>
<p>All I ask is give our child a name—</p>
<p>Not just a first name.&quot;</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(MAXIE comes on.) Hello, Maxie. I'll start over
so you can get this.
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Should a father's carnal sins—</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(looking at EDNA)<br />
Wait a minute! Isn't this—Miss Baker?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
And you're Mr. Schwartz.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Correct!
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
Come on, Maxie! Get a load of this!
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;Should a father's carnal sins—&quot;</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Go back to your cell! We want to talk!
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
But she wants to hear this number!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
(gets an idea)<br />
Listen! You don't know who she is.
</p>
<p>
BENNY<br />
No.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Well! Remember what happened to &quot;Tokio.&quot;
(It's a case of the burnt child. BENNY scoots out,
throwing a look back at EDNA as he goes.) My,
but I'm glad to see you!
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
It's nice of you to say so, anyway.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
I guess it was kind of nervy of me, calling you
up that way. Hope you didn't mind.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Why—no. I—I thought it was very friendly.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Of course it isn't really any of my business exactly,
but—nobody else was doing anything, so
I thought I would. Probably you can guess who
it's about.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Tell me about him! What's happened? What's
happened to him?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Do you mind if I ask a question? I think I
know the answer.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
You're in love with him, aren't you? (EDNA
turns away.) You know, you can tell me. I'm
for you—I want to help you. You do—love him?
(EDNA nods.) Enough to keep him from—ruining himself?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
How do you mean?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
He's engaged to be married. You know that?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I—supposed that was it.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
But he's not happy. He's not in love with her.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(breaking out)<br />
I can't do anything! He doesn't love me! He
never did!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Somebody's got to do something. He's not a
fellow that can think for himself. They left that
out.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Oh, why did you make me come here? I
shouldn't have done it—I don't know why I did!
I've been trying every way to forget him—I went
away, and I didn't see anybody, and then I went
around with lots of people—it only made it worse.
I kept wanting to call him up, and once I did,
only—I hung up before he could come to the telephone.
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Let me bring him in here.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
No, no! I don't want to talk to him! I mustn't!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
But he's in trouble. And you're the only one
that can help him.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
He don't want to see me!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Let me tell him you're here. It can't do any
harm. (EDNA is silent.) You needn't answer.
Only promise me one thing.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
No matter what happens, come and see me afterward.
Will you? (EDNA nods.) The second
door on the left, down that hall. (MAXIE goes.
EDNA is alone for a moment. Two moments, even.
Then a pretty excited FRED comes on.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Hello, Eddie.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'm awful glad to see you, Eddie! Gee, but I'm
glad to see you!
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I didn't really come to—I mean, it was Mr.
Schwartz that made me talk to you.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
My, but it's great to see you again! I didn't
know how great it would be.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'm glad to see you, too, Fred. I'm glad you're
well and that you're going to be—happy.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I been thinking about you, Eddie an awful
lot, lately. I been waking up in the morning,
thinking about you.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Are you waking up in the morning again,
Fred?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I been going to call you up to tell you about it.
We used to have a lot of fun together. (Eagerly.)
Remember that day in Van Cortlandt Park when
I lost my watch and that little boy found it?
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You gave him a nickel.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It was a dime. And he said, &quot;Keep it and buy
your wife a raddio set.&quot; He thought we was married.
(He laughs, as though trying to induce a
mood of merriment in EDNA.)
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I remember.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You was embarrassed, all right. You got red.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Any girl would.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
And then coming back we forgot to change at
Seventy-second Street. That is, you forgot. I
didn't know any better.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I just wasn't thinking.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
We had to go all the way down to Times
Square. That's when we saw the flea circus.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
You said one of the fleas reminded you of a
man in Schenectady.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yeah. Perry Robinson. He always walked like
he'd just picked up a nail. (FRED drops the pretense
and comes out with it.) Eddie, did Maxie
say anything to you? About me.
</p>
<p>
EDNA (in agony)<br />
He said you were going to be married, Fred. I
should have congratulated you.
</p>
<p>
FRED (suddenly)<br />
I don't want to any more, Eddie! I know it
now! I don't want to!
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Don't say that, Fred! Don't! Don't say it
unless you mean it! I couldn't stand it!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But I do mean it, Eddie! I mean it more than
anything in the—
</p>
<p>
(EILEEN comes on. You knew she would.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (rather gaily)<br />
I'm sorry.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(as EDNA shows signs of bolting)<br />
No—don't go away. This is—Miss Fletcher.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (appraisingly)<br />
Hello.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
And this is Miss Baker. She's the little girl—
I mean, I used to know her when—
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
(who can't stand it)<br />
I'll be going if you don't mind. Good-by, Fred.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No—look! Don't go away!
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
Yes, I must! I—good-by, Miss Fletcher! (She
rushes off. FRED hesitates for a second; then
starts out after her.)
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Fred!
</p>
<p>
FRED (stopping short)<br />
Huh?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why, what's the matter with you? One would
almost think it was her you were going to marry
instead of me.
</p>
<p>
FRED (facing her)<br />
I got to tell you something.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why, what is it?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I don't want to get married! I mean—you
and I!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Do you know what you're saying?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I can't help it! I shouldn't ever have done it!
I didn't realize!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Well! This is a fine time to tell me! Why didn't
you wait till Friday!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I just now realized it!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I see! And you think all you have to do is tell
me and that settles it. Well, it doesn't work quite
that way!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You think I'm going to stand by and let you
throw me over for that little snip!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
She is not!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Not by a damned sight! I'll sue her for alienation—that's
what I'll do.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
You can't She was born right here in New
York State!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You seem to have forgotten something! Did
you beg me to marry you or didn't you?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But I didn't know then.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You seem to have forgotten that I was engaged
to another man, and that you took me away from
him! What about that?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I can't help it.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(a change of method)<br />
But that isn't the main thing. I love you,
Freddy. You made me love you. I didn't at first,
but you made me. And now you want to leave me.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But you don't want me to marry you, if I feel
that way.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
What would you think of a man that made a
girl love him, when she was already engaged, and
then threw her over? Do you think that would
be quite—honorable?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(with sudden inspiration)<br />
Honorable! That's just what I got to be!
That's why I can't marry you!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
What do you mean?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I mean I got to marry another girl, to save her
from—from worse than death.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
That little kid? (A gesture.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
You mean you've got her in trouble?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes! That's it!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I don't believe you! I'm going to call her back!
</p>
<p>
FRED (stopping her)<br />
No, no! You mustn't tell her that!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Why not?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I—I want to surprise her.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(a scornful surveying)<br />
Did you think I was going to fall for any story
like that? (FRED turns away.) I'm the one you're
engaged to, and I'm the one you're going to
marry.
</p>
<p>
(PAUL comes in.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Not interrupting, am I?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN (slowly, and narrowly observing FRED)<br />
No, I was just going. (With great deliberation.)
We understand each other. Don't we?
(She watches FRED; gets no response; goes out.)
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What's the matter?
</p>
<p>
FRED (dully)<br />
Huh?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You haven't had a fight, have you?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(shakes his head)<br />
There ain't anything the matter.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I thought maybe we might get after one of
those numbers.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I don't feel much like working.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I'm sorry if anything's happened.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It ain't nothing. I'll be all right soon.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
The only thing is—there isn't much time left
if we're going to finish before you go. Here it is
Tuesday.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
How about starting in early to-morrow morning?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
What are you doing this afternoon?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I got to go to the French passport place.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I thought you went there yesterday.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I couldn't. I told you I went with Eileen while
she was shopping.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Oh, yah. Four hundred dollars.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
She certainly knows how to spend.
</p>
<p>
PAUL (lightly)<br />
You must have had a swell time, running around
with two women all afternoon.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No, I wasn't. What two women?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Her and Lucille.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Lucille wasn't along. Just I and Eileen.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yesterday?
</p>
<p>
FRED (nods)<br />
We was together from one till five-thirty. Why?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(trying to fit things together)
Nothing, only—and it was yesterday she spent
the four hundred?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
It was three eighty-seven.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
That's funny.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What's the matter?
</p>
<p>
PAUL (slowly)<br />
I don't know. I guess I got things kind of
mixed up.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What things?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Didn't Lucille ever meet you, during the afternoon?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
No. Why?
</p>
<p>
(EILEEN and LUCILLE look in.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
We're going out to lunch. Want to come along?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(almost too casually)<br />
I want to talk to you.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
I said I want to talk to you.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What about?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(catching a note of something in PAUL'S
manner)<br />
What's the matter with him?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Where were you yesterday afternoon?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(trying to do some quick thinking)<br />
I was—out.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(quiet, but terrifying)<br />
I said, where were you?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Do I have to report all my movements?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You do when I catch you lying! Where were
you?
</p>
<p>
(FRED is following this with wide but uncomprehending
eyes. EILEEN is scared but wary,
waiting to go to the defense if she can.)
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I had an engagement! It was—with an old
friend of mine, and I thought you might not want
me to do it, and so I told you I was with Eileen.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(beginning to understand)<br />
Oh!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I know it was foolish of me! I was going to
tell you later.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
She was going to tell you to-night! She told
me so.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
Yah!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Yah? (After another terrible pause.) Where'd
you get that dress?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What? I bought it.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I treated her to it, if you want to know.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Is that so? That wasn't what you told me.
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
I was afraid you wouldn't let me take it.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(after a bit of thinking)<br />
Where'd you go, yesterday afternoon? With
this fellow?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
We went to a matinée.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
On a Monday?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
It was at the Palace. We went to the Palace.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(taking plenty of time)<br />
Who was there?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
On the bill. Who were the headliners?
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(panic in her voice)<br />
I don't see what difference that makes.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(not raising his tone)<br />
You—dirty—lying—double-crosser!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
That's not true!
</p>
<p>
LUCILLE<br />
(stopping EILEEN)<br />
Keep still! I'm sick of the whole thing! (She
faces Paul.) Yes!... Yes, if you want to know!...
Yes and to hell with you! Did you think I
was going to wait around forever for you to give
me the things I wanted? God knows I waited long
enough! And then—I just didn't wait any longer,
that's all. What do you know about that? Huh?
What do you know about that? (PAUL is stunned.
Turns slowly away.) So—that's the way that
stands! (She takes a step toward the door;
breaks into sobs. EILEEN goes to her; puts her
arm around her.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
But—but you mean to say that when you were
married to him— (He takes a moment, trying to
realize it. Then, to EILEEN.) But you must have
known she was doing it!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
What? Why—no, I didn't.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Yes. You said you bought her the dress.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
(a scornful laugh)<br />
Known she was doing it! She put her up to it!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
That's not true!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
No? Well, then I'll tell you something that is
true!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
Don't you believe him, Fred!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
And thank God I've got the courage to tell you
at last!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He's a liar, that's what he is! I tell you he's a
liar!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Why, what is it?
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
You didn't know your fiancée had a lover, did
you?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
What?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I tell you it's a lie. He's just trying to separate us!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
Am I?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
He's just making it up!
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
She told you she was engaged to be married!
Well, she wasn't! He was her lover, and he kicked
her out, and that's why she took up with you! I'd
have told you long ago, if I hadn't been a coward!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(staggered. Turns to EILEEN)<br />
Is this true?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
(in final realization that the game is up)<br />
Of course it is, you little fool!
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Gosh!
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
That's probably a pretty big shock to those
fine up-state morals of yours.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Then I been going around all this time with
a—bad woman?
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
And now have we both got permission to go, or
does somebody else want to speak? (Spotting
EDNA, who has been brought on the scene by
MAXIE.) Maybe your little girl friend would like
to say a few words?
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
If she does, she'll say them to me. And I'll know
I can believe them, too.
</p>
<p>
EILEEN<br />
I'm sure you'll understand each other. What's
more, you're probably the only two people in the
world that would. Come on, Lucille. (She surveys
the lovers.) I want to come and visit that
child of yours—next month. (LUCILLE and
EILEEN go.)
</p>
<p>
(PAUL has dropped into a chair, his head buried
in his hands.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
(turning to where EDNA and MAXIE stand)
Eddie, I—I don't have to marry her.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
I'm so happy, Fred.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
I'm sorry, Paul, about—everything.
</p>
<p>
PAUL<br />
That's all right. I'm glad if I helped to fix
things for you. I should have told you long ago.
(He goes.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Only look! I've still got the tickets for the
boat, and it says &quot;Frederick M. Stevens and
Wife.&quot; And I wonder if the steamship people
allow you to change your wife?
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
Yes. If you don't do it in midstream.
</p>
<p>
EDNA<br />
If your wife is the right kind she won't let you
take her on an expensive trip. She'll make you
put everything into a home. I don't mean a big
home—just a little bungalow would do.
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
Bungalow! A bungalow for two! That'd be a
great title!
</p>
<p>
MAXIE<br />
And I've got a great tune! (MAXIE goes into
&quot;Button Up Your Overcoat.&quot; FRED is enchanted—to
him it is something that MAXIE has composed
on the spur of the moment. He starts improvising
words.)
</p>
<p>
FRED<br />
</p>
<blockquote>
<p>&quot;In a bungalow for two,  </p>
<p>Where we can bill and coo—&quot;</p>
</blockquote>
<p>
(Mercifully, the curtain is down.)
</p>
<p>
CURTAIN<br />
</p>